The tiny landlocked country of Andorra is wedged in between Spain and France. The mountains in Andorra are usually a mixture of trees and rocks. Andorran buildings are normally multi-storey and look rather nice. Often the houses are made of stones compressed together.
Andorran license plates are less elongated than standard European plates and lack the European blue vertical stripe. The left side of Andorran plates feature an orange blotch, which is unique within Europe. Standard European plates are also often found in Andorra.
Andorra has lots valleys with mountains rising up around them. The roads in Andorra look well-maintained. There are tall, wooden and distinctively coloured snow marker poles that line many roads in Andorra.

Andorra has a lot of stone buildings, but similar buildings can also be found in the French and Spanish Pyrenees.

Catalan is the main language in Andorra. It is a Romance language that is closely related to Spanish and French.

The Catalan language is also used in eastern Spain: in Catalonia, the Valencian community and the Balearic islands.

The Catalan word for street is “carrer”.

There are many kilometre markers with CG and CS road numbers in Andorra.


Andorra uses yellow reflectors on its guardrails. Within Europe, yellow reflectors on guardrails are only found in Andorra, Spain and Belgium.

Bollards in Andorra have orange reflectors, they can be occasionally found on the main highways.

Yellow and turquoise-green traffic cones are used in the whole country.

Pedestrian signs have 8 stripes. Spain is the only other European country that has pedestrian signs with 8 stripes.


Andorra la Vella, the capital city, is surrounded by high mountains, making it recognisable. It is the highest European capital with an altitude of 1023 metres.

In the capital Andorra la Vella you can often see the Caldea tower and the sky wheel.

Pas de la Casa, a touristy city in eastern Andorra, can be easily recognized by the plethora of shops and hotels. As Pas de la Casa is located at an altitude of 2080 metres, there are no trees visible on the mountains surrounding it.