The general Austrian rural landscape is one of the easiest ways to recognise the country, there are often rolling hills and lush green grasslands around the road. The roads are well-maintained. Austrian bollards have little black caps on them and the reflectors on the bollards appear as either red, black or some reddish-black colour. Some Austrian bollards have more of a bright red reflector. The rears of Austrian bollards tend to have a light coloured rectangle.Austrian houses are often double-storey, they have slanting, dark terracotta roofs and light-coloured paint. The houses are generally well-maintained and commonly have satellite dishes stemming from them. Austrian cities will often have blue signs with an arrow and the word ‘EINBAHN’. In Vienna, the street signs are blue coloured. In the city of Linz, street signs are white. In Graz the street signs are green not including the very centre of the city. The official language of Austria is German and if you see the ß symbol, you are in Austria or Germany as Switzerland doesn’t use ß. The German language uses the special letters Ä, Ö, Ü and ß. The western part of Austria is more mountainous, but it still has plentiful grass and rolling hills like the rest of Austria.
Vienna in Austria can be distinguished by its blue coloured street name signs. Linz in Austria can be distinguished by its white coloured street name signs. Graz in Austria has green coloured street name signs for everywhere except the very centre of the city. Directional arrows are particularly common in the Austrian Alps, they are either red with a white arrow or yellow with a red arrow. Wooden a-frame poles with a horizontal bar can often be found in Austria(while it's not the most common pole, it is unique to Austria). Street signs in Vienna display a number indicating what district they are in.

Austria has long, white licence plates with the standard blue EU strip on the left.

Austria uses two colour schemes for chevrons: white on red and red on yellow.

Round wooden poles are the most common type of pole found in Austria.

Most of Austria is mountainous and covered in forests. However, some areas in the east and northeast are much more flat and agricultural.

Alpine architecture is common in Austria and other countries in the Alps. Houses commonly have distinct light coloured walls, with wooden elements such as balconies or panelling around the top floor, with dark-coloured wooden roofs that extend outward. The roofs of houses in Austria can sometimes be angled downward at the front and back. In addition, houses are also often multi-storied.


Direction signs have a white background, a blue outline, and a unique font.

Similar white signs with a blue outline and unique font can also be seen at the entrance of towns.


Green signs can commonly be seen, giving directions to different local facilities.

Cross-walks: pedestrian signs have a unique design: instead of zebra stripes, they have two horizontal dashed lines (all neighbouring countries have pedestrian signs with zebra stripes).

Road markers are blue with white numbers, they have one decimal separated by a comma, making them very recognizable.

Austrian bus stop signs contain a yellow and green circle with the letter H, which is a unique design in Europe.


There yellow natural gas poles, which resemble snow poles, that are unique to Austria.


Austria uses all white road lines.

Austrian street signs are most commonly coloured blue.


Austria uses the standard EU styled license plate.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Austria is a very mountainous nation.

Architecture:

A common site can be ‘chalet’-type houses.

