The state of New South Wales, including Sydney, has a portion of cars with yellow license plates contrasting the white license plates across the rest of Australia. License plates in the state of Victoria most commonly have a subtle yet visible black triangle pointing downwards situated in the top-middle of the plate. License plates in the Northern Territory generally have a reddish tinge. Western Australian license plates feature a narrow, horizontal blue band running across the top of the plate. Both New South Wales and Victoria use lots of thin license plates, and these can come in white and black for both states. Like most countries, you can often customize the license plate on your car.

The state of South Australia is essentially the only place in the world with concrete utility poles - these hold up the power lines and there are almost 1 million of them in South Australia. South Australia uses so called Stobie poles as utility poles, they consist of steel on both sides and concrete in the centre. The Northern Territory uses metal utility poles with holes in them. Outside of South Australia and the Northern Territory, the rest of Australia typically uses wooden utility poles that are cylindrical and sometimes feature a crucifix bar. Approximately 50% of utility poles in Tasmania have olive coloured metal wrappings around the pole, generally around 2 metres above the ground. In the Greater Brisbane area- generally between the Sunshine Coast and the Gold Coast, you will often see utility poles with a sloppily painted black section. In Canberra, you will often see utility poles with a short, crucifix-style horizontal bar.
Australian roads mainly have all white road lines. Australia stands out thanks to Eucalyptus trees, which are typically tall with white bark. 'C' roads are found in Tasmania and Victoria. Australia typically has white street signs. The south east corner of Australia is the only green vegetation area of the country. Tasmania also tends to be rather lush and can look similar to New Zealand. Victoria also regularly has green rolling hills. In general, Australia is very flat, but if you do see rolling hills, you are most likely in Tasmania or Victoria. The Northern territory abides by a maximum speed limit of 130m/h vs 110km/h for the rest of Australia. Trees in Western Australia tend to be lower and with a bushier foliage than the rest of Australia. The trees in the eastern states are normally higher and more sprawling. If the soil has a more reddish colour then you are more likely in western Australia, whereas a white or light coloured soil is typically found alongside the road in the southern half of South Australia. Trees often have black coloured bark in the northern part of Australia, especially around Darwin.
Curbs in the city of Perth tend to have a gradual decline to the ground (or have a very low drop- around 3cm). This contrasts standard curbs across the other major Australian cities which have curbs that slant at 90 degrees and drop straight down for about 13cm. Another way to identify Western Australia is via its yellow coloured poles which hold up signs, the rest of Australia uses silver poles.  Australian ‘GIVE WAY’ signs are written in black writing in contrast to New Zealand ‘GIVE WAY’ signs, that are written in red writing. Additionally, New Zealand has a triangle printed on the road approaching ‘GIVE WAY’ signs whilst Australian roads are bare. Palm trees in Australia are commonly found in the northern half of the country and near the coast. Palm trees in Australia are more commonly found along the coast and in the northern half of the country. Bungalow style houses are particularly common in the Australian suburbs. Houses in the state of Queensland are most commonly made of horizontal pieces of wood and often elevated off the ground.

Gum trees (eucalyptus) are by far the most common type of tree in Australia: their bark is typically light-coloured, with puffy leaves.

Australian bollards are white, with a red reflector on the front, and a grey reflector on the back. Rural bollards in the state of Western Australia sometimes have these brown/gray segments on their base. New Zealand uses a bollard where the red reflector wraps around the back, meaning the reflector goes from end to end while the Australian one stops in the middle.

Cars in Australia drive on the left side of the road.

Australia uses almost exclusively white road lines, with a few rare exceptions in alpine regions such as Mount Kosciuszko and Mount Hotham.
If you are considering guessing in Australia, but see yellow outside lines or a yellow middle line, you will probably be in South Africa or New Zealand.

Outside lines in Australia sometimes feature rumble strips that look like small white stripes perpendicular to the road line.

Australia uses white on black and black on yellow chevrons.

Green signs with white arrows on either side can be seen at intersections which show nearby towns or cities.

Australian speed limit signs have black text in a red circle on a large white rectangle, whereas New Zealand speed limit signs normally do not have the white rectangular background.

Unique Vehicles:

Each region in Australia will have a unique looking Mass Transit Bus, as well as a unique bus stop. Buses in New South Wales will generally have dark blue at the bottom, the Queensland buses are similar looking, but they also have yellow at the front and rear.
Most buses in Victoria have an orange-triangle design all around them. South Australian buses come in several designs of red, blue and yellow, but they will always have the “Adelaide Metro” logo on them. Western Australian buses have a grey design with green stripes, and also the word “Transperth” written on them. There are several bus designs in the Northern Territory, but many seem to have an orange design at the bottom, especially closer / in Darwin. Tasmania has several bus companies, but most of them have the yellow at the front. The Australian Capital Territory has a lot of bus designs, they can have blue, green or yellow on them.

Bollard:

The most common Bollard is flat, and white apart from a red rectangle towards the top.


Australia uses yellow diamond-shaped warning signs often featuring the local fauna.

Australia has a wide range of signs, most look similar to signs you could find in the USA or Canada.

You can find signs near all “Shire” (= county) borders, with some indicating a population or showing a crest of arms.

You can occasionally find  wild fire signs in Australia.

Australia typically uses a green sign with a blue shield as their state road symbol, whereas New Zealand uses a RED shield and the USA has their typical Black and White or Red and Blue shields.
Roads in Australia are often alphanumeric and on blue shields, he national highways begin with the letter A and a number, most state highways begin with B and a number, and some will use C.


Some Western Australia road signs will be on yellow poles.

Some bollards in Western Australia will be painted brown at the bottom.

Western Australia, New South Wales, Queensland, Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory have white borders around their traffic lights, while Victoria, South Australia and the Northern Territory do not.

No Stopping sings in New South Wales are red, unlike anywhere else in the country.

You can find Black and White chevrons occasionally near traffic circles. As for the Yellow and Black chevrons, these are located in Forested hilly areas.

Like other countries in the world, you can find the City name as well as their logo on most trash bins located around.


Vegetation/Landscape:

Australia has a wide variety of landscapes, ranging from desert in the center, grasslands in the south, and tropics in the north.



Australia has a wide variety of unique Flora/Fauna to be found there, but Eucalyptus, Paperbark, Strangler Fig Trees are a common example.


Most large cities in Australia do not have massive skyscrapers, there are some exceptions like Sydney Melbourne and Brisbane, but most cities have shorter buildings.
There is also a clear western influence on the buildings, with a lot of English architecture common throughout the country.

