Urban Bangladesh is one of the most densely populated areas in the world, there are often large numbers of people standing on the streets, as well as vehicles in a traffic jam and numerous rickshaws. Rickshaws featuring a bike at the front and two wheels at the back are common across other parts of Asia but they are especially common in Bangladesh. Urban Bangladesh also features many shops crammed together along the sides of the roads with signs galore. The rural streets can still be crowded with vehicles, but can be distinguished as the road is generally straight and almost always elevated above the land. There are typically trees lining the sides of the road and grassland beyond in rural areas. There are often puddles of water on the low-lying grass flanking the road.
The colours, red and white appear regularly in Bangladesh, on bollards, fences separating the road from water sources and on some curbs. The Bangladesh language of Bangala resembles Hindi but unlike Hindi, it regularly has triangles that point to the left.
Bangladeshi vehicles drive on the left. Most of the time, for civilian vehicles, Bangladeshi license plates are white for front and rear plates. There are also turquoise and black licence plates that can only be found in Bangladesh. Rickshaws in Bangladesh tend to have either green or white license plates. Bangladeshi bollards look like chimneys and are painted in alternating red and white sections. The most common road markings in Bangladesh involve white, continuous edge lines and a white, dashed, centre line.


Sign posts in Bangladesh often have black-and-white stripes, but these posts are also found in Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Malaysia.

Due to the humid climate, tin roofs are commonly found on houses in Bangladesh.


Most bangladeshi road signs are in Bengali, however in urban areas you can sometimes find English.

Many of the road signs use black and white poles too, however this is not always the case.


Bangladeshi electricity poles are made of wood.


Vegetation/Landscape:

Due to its location and featuring many tributaries Bangladesh is a very wet looking country and very green, it is also very flat.


Common vehicles:

Bangladesh has a few very common vehicles rarely seen in other countries including: Trikes, Tuk-tuks (often green), vibrantly painted lorries and double decker buses.

