License plates in Belgium have red lettering on them (which shows up on Street View as a faint, yet distinctly recognisable red blur). Belgian plates also have the blue vertical stripe that is common on European plates however on some occasions, this is found on the right side of Belgium plates. No other countries have this widespread combination of a red blur on European plates making it a good way to identify Belgium. Most of the license plates have a one number-three letters-three numbers format. However, since 2014 Belgians can request their personalized license plates, which makes any combination possible.
Belgium cities typically have their name on every street sign. Belgium's northern section is Flemish (Dutch speakers) whilst its southern section speak French and tiny parts of its eastern flank speak German. Belgium houses have an older, sturdy look to them. A lot of houses in Belgium are made of distinctive red bricks (this is more common in the North and West of the country). Houses in the South of the country use a lot of stone, have gray tones and generally look more French.The houses usually have slanted roofs and are often made out of bricks that are all visible on the exterior. In rural areas, the Belgium landscape consists of grass fields.  Belgium roads are well-maintained and sometimes have cycling paths running alongside them. The most common type of Belgian utility pole is square shaped and contains small holes running up it- much like the Thai utility poles. The second most common type of Belgian utility pole contains an oval shaped hole section. The rear of certain types of signs in Belgium (some circular and some rectangular) are coloured this distinctive orange colour. The rural parts of Belgium often consist of fields.


There are many different types of bollards used in Belgium, including white bollards with a yellow rectangular reflector on the front and white on the back and dark brown bollards with two red stripes at the top.


Belgium uses A-type guardrails with yellow reflectors, which in Europe are also used by Spain and Andorra.


Directional signs in Belgium are most often blue or white.

Road signs often have an additional small blue sign, in other European countries, these small signs are usually just white.

Belgium uses pedestrian crossing signs without any stripes, but with two horizontal dotted lines and the man on the sign has a square head. France and the Netherlands use a pedestrian sign with a regular zebra crossing with five vertical stripes.

Kilometre markers in Belgium are often green, but can have red text as well.

Belgium like the Netherlands uses white chevrons with a red arrow, but they aren't found in France.

A lot of rural roads in Belgium are made out of concrete slabs, almost like you would see in the Philippines or Thailand.

Belgium uses all white road lines, these can be continuous or broken.



Signposts in Belgium are often orange. The backs of signs are also sometimes orange, which is unique to Belgium.

Street name signs in Belgium are very diverse, and often unique to a city, but the most common colours are white and dark blue. Most of the street signs in Belgium are fairly short and tall, whereas Dutch street signs are almost always much longer than they are tall.

Town entry signs in Belgium are white with a black border, they also mention the name of the city or municipality in bold, black text.

Priority signs in Belgium have an orange diamond and are much smaller than in other countries.

Bus stops are always marked by yellow signposts and bus shelters often have yellow roofs.

Traffic lights are most often supported by black and yellow striped poles.

Belgium uses red water hydrants signs with the letter H on top.


Almost all roads (big or small) in Belgium use gutters on both sides.

Belgian bicycle paths have short dashed outer lines.


Belgium is generally flat in the northwest of the country, especially near the coast. The further south east you go, the hillier.

Bollard:


There’s also hectometer signs and wooden city bollards that you might be able to spot in Belgium.

Road Lines:

Most roads in Belgium either have a single white striped line, or no road lines at all, sometimes they go together with cycling paths.
You can also come across so called multi-dot road lines. The Multidot Line is not only designed as a marking, but also has the function of draining rainwater in a quick way.

Directions to other cities in Belgium are on blue signs.

Local directions from the highway are visible on white signs.


Wind turbines can be found in Belgium as well.


Vegetation/Landscape:

Belgium has three main geographical regions: the coastal plain in the north-west, the central plateau, and the Ardennes uplands in the south-east.

