Christmas Island is a territory of Australia, situated in the Indian Ocean, off Australia’s north-western coast. The easiest way to find Christmas Island in the vastness of the Indian Ocean is to locate Jakarta then pan down. The simplest way to recognise Christmas Island is to look down as the tray of the silver ute (pick-up truck) is visible. This area is dominated by paved roads covered in sand, houses with satellite dishes and cars with distinct yellow license plates. The bulk of Christmas Island is covered in Christmas Island National Park and some coverage weaves through the gravel/dirt, unpaved roads amongst this area. There is thick flora on both sides of the road in this section of the island. There is some coverage on Christmas Island captured by a person walking around with the Street View camera. Additionally, there is some ocean coverage off the north coastline in which you will expectedly see a boat if you pan down. Christmas Island uses English and the vehicles drive on the left. Christmas Island is located in the Indian Ocean. The easiest way to find it on the map is to locate Jakarta and pan down.There is also some boat coverage beyond the northern coastline of the island. If you pan down in Christmas Island, you will see the tray of a ute (pick-up truck). The tray is a light silver colour. There are a large number of satellite dishes located on Christmas Island. If you are in a populated area you will undoubtedly see satellite dishes. If you are situated on an unpaved road on Christmas Island, you are likely somewhere in the large Christmas Island National Park. This area of Christmas Island is dominated by thick foliage flanking the road. If you are situated on a paved road on Christmas Island, you are probably in the north-eastern corner of the island. Christmas Island’s paved roads are normally dusted with sand. Both front and rear license plates on Christmas Island are this distinct yellow colour. There is a small amount of coverage on Christmas Island captured by a person walking around (you can see their blurred outline). In this example, we can see the Christmas Island red crabs. There is some boat coverage off the north coastline of Christmas Island. The most common type of bollard on Christmas Island resembles the Australian bollard featuring a red, elongated rectangle on a white bollard. The rear of these Christmas Island bollards have a silver rectangle. Northern African Street View coverage. The savanna trees are a good indicator that you are in Africa and include the Umbrella Thorn Acacia. All of the countries in GeoGuessr in Africa have predominantly English signs besides Senegal, Tunisia and Reunion which contain French signs (Tunisia also has Arabic). Warnings about various animals on signs is also a sign that you may be in Africa. The southern and Eastern countries of South Africa, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Uganda and Kenya are distinguishable from the rest of Africa due to left hand side of the road divers. For GeoGuessr purposes, if you see a car driving on the left side of the road in mainland Africa, you are south of the red line on the map. If you see a car driving on the right side of the road, then you are north of the red line. Madagascar and Reunion drive on the right. 

Christmas Island is a small island territory south-southwest of Java. It is an Australian external territory, so for country streaks purposes it is counted as part of Australia.

Do not get its location confused with the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, which are another Australian territory a little west of Christmas Island.

Most of Christmas Island is covered by dense tropical forest. Some unpaved roads feature bright, white sandy soil. A small part of the coverage is in built-up areas. And in some places, palms can be seen.

Christmas Island uses the standard Australian bollard. It is a simple white bollard with a red reflector on the front, and a grey reflector on the back.

In general, road infrastructure metas are similar to those found on mainland Australia, such as speed limit signs, green sign backgrounds, etc.

Christmas Island has yellow licence plates.