Bollards in Czechia have orange double reflectors on the front and a single white reflector on the back, but there are also rarer blue and red variants. The only other country with the same design is Slovakia.

Czechia and Slovakia both use a special kind of guardrail, which is wider than the normal type and no other European countries use the same kind.


Czechia and Slovakia most commonly use wide, round concrete poles, which are quite often attached in pairs.

Czech and Slovak pole tops typically feature short metal bars that hold the insulators.

Two support bars holding up the metal bar on pole tops, resembling an upside down triangle, can sometimes be found in Czechia and Slovakia.

It is common in both Czechia and Slovakia to see sign posts coated in red and white stripes, which can look similar to Austrian sign posts.

Czech and Slovak chevrons are white with red arrows.

Roofs with diamond shaped tiles are common in both Czechia and Slovakia.


The Czech and Slovak languages might look quite similar for someone who does not speak either, however they both have some distinct letters: Czech uses the letters Ř, Ě and Ů; Slovak uses the letters Ľ, Ô, Ä, Ŕ and Ĺ.

The Czechian landscape is fairly rolling, with a lot of hills and altitude changes, but not a lot of tall mountains. Generally speaking, Slovakia has more mountains, but also more completely flat areas.

Czechia often has solid outer road lines, with no centre line.


Czechia uses blue directional signs, with large filled in white arrows while Slovakia has small white arrows instead.

The borders of Czech road signs are almost always separated from the edge by a strip in the same colour as the sign background.

Czech highway signs can be either blue or green, and have a thin white border, which is separated from the edge by a second coloured border.


House numbers in Czechia are generally written on blue or red signs with thin white borders. On the contrary, Slovakian house numbers are typically written on white signs with a thin red or black border.

The most common type of street sign in Czechia are unique, bright red signs, which can either be wide and stuck on walls, or thin and attached to signs posts.

Furthermore, unlike most slavic countries, Czechia does not use the word “ulica” in street names.


Czechian sign posts typically have thick, black caps.


Czech pedestrian signs have five stripes.


Czech road signs have a fairly thin font, while Slovakian signs normally have a much bolder font.

Czech kilometre markers have a yellow outline outside the black frame and do not have a black horizontal middle line.

Suburban houses in Czechia are commonly connected in pairs, this is less common in most neighbouring countries, including Slovakia.


Czechia uses all white road lines; the middle divider can be either dashed or solid and the shoulders are also white.

Czechia also uses regular EU road signs.

In Czechia, you can find signs when leaving or entering a town that feature the town name and a prominent arrow.

Street name signs in Czechia can be found in multiple colours, including red and green.


There are countless different varieties of electricity poles throughout Czechia, some of them feature speakers on them.

Characteristic street lights found in Czechia look like there are two on top of each other.

The thick bottom of poles in Czechia can be coloured in multiple colours, but this feature can be found in Slovakia too.


You can find license plates with or without the blue EU strip in Czechia.

The city of Prague is separated into districts, you can find out what district you are in from the street signs of Prague. The “Praha 1” indicates that you are in the first district of Prague.


You can see nice rolling hills through most of the country.

