Identifying Estonia from the other two Baltic countries is harder but there are some clear clues to be aware of. Estonia has a plethora of unpaved roads. These roads are narrow and typically only wide enough for one vehicle. This contrasts the wide, unpaved roads of Latvia. The Estonian landscape is another key factor in separating the Baltic countries. There are more likely to be thin, white trees in Estonia than the other further south Baltic countries. In addition to these trees, small flowers along the sides of the road are more prevalent in Estonia. Estonia tends to have more forests, thicker forests and forests closer to the road than the other Baltic countries. Estonian utility poles are distinct from Lithuanian and Latvian poles. Estonian poles have a semblance of a crucifix shape. Estonian bollards are also different looking from those found in the other Baltic countries. Estonia has cylindrical shaped bollards- something that Lithuania and Latvia lack. These are generally the generic black and white colours however the white rectangle will on occasions be yellow. Finally, the Estonian language is quite different from Lithuanian and Latvian. Estonian has more in common with Finnish. The main thing to look for in Estonian is double letters (like Finnish). Estonian is different from Finnish as it has the letter Õ. Other than the way it sounds, Estonian is different from the other Baltic languages as it has Õ and Ä. If I see an unpaved, narrow, European road in GeoGuessr, I will guess Estonia. Estonian unpaved roads are typically only one vehicle wide. Estonia can often be distinguished from Latvia as Latvian unpaved roads are normally wider- wide enough for two vehicles. These types of thin trees are more likely to be found alongside parts of the road in the northern Baltic country of Estonia. They are less likely to be found in the southern Baltic county of Lithuania. The sides of the Estonian roads are often more forested than Latvian and Lithuanian roads. Estonian utility poles are more likely to resemble a crucifix. Utility poles are one of the best ways to distinguish between the Baltic countries. Like the other Baltic countries, Estonia will on occasions have a diagonal support pole for their utility poles. Standard Estonian bollards are cylindrical. This contrasts the narrow plank bollards of Lithuania and Latvia. The front of Estonian bollards have the white rectangle encased in the black section, similar to the Latvian bollards. Estonian bollards will on rare occasions have a yellow rectangle rather than the white rectangle. Estonian bollards have two white circles on their rear. Small flowers along the sides of the road are more common in Estonia than the other Baltic countries. Estonia is recognisable from the other Baltic countries as their blue, kilometre markers are orientated at right angles to the road. This is different from Lithuanian markers (these point in an arrow shape towards the road) and Latvian markers (parallel to the road). Occasionally the gray/white/black edge of the left Estonian side view mirror will be visible. Latvia has a similar coloured left, side view mirror that is also occasionally visible. Lithuania’s left side view mirror is more commonly visible and is green and red. Most of the time, if you pan down in the Baltic countries, you will see a significantly blurred car with jagged edges. This car is also commonly visible in Croatia. Other parts of Eastern Europe tend to have a more subtle blurring of the car. Estonian warning signs have no white border around the red border. This contrasts warning signs in Latvia and Lithuania which have a white border outside the red. In the Estonian city of Tartu you will mainly (but not always) see pedestrian signs on blue and white striped poles. Like the other Baltic countries and much of Eastern Europe, the Street View car’s aerial should be visible if you pan down in Estonia. Like the other Baltic countries, Estonian houses often have eternit roofs (they resemble corrugated iron) that are grey/silver in colour. Identifying this house style is the easiest way for me to work out that I’m in a Baltic country. Estonian road lines are white and occasionally you will see the white dashes along the sides of the road. Much of the green landscape in Estonia tends to have a subtle greenish tint that distinguishes it from Lithuania and Latvia. This green tint takes lots of practice to be able to identify. There is often a slight blur that is noticeable in the greenery within Estonia. The Estonian language has a similar feel to the Finnish language (both languages have a glut of double letters). Estonian is fairly distinct from Lithuanian and Latvian and it contains Õ and Ä. These other Baltic languages lack Õ and Ä. Estonian can be distinguished from Finnish as it has the unique letter Õ, something Finnish lacks. 

Estonian licence plates are long and white, with the standard blue European strip on the left.

Estonian bollards have a round, baton-like shape.

They have a rectangular reflector on the front and two circular reflectors on the back. The reflectors can be white or orange.

Latvian and Lithuanian bollards look different.

This infographic shows the main similarities and differences between the bollards of the Baltic and Nordic countries.

Estonia uses a variety of different poles and poletops. Of the three Baltic countries, it has the least consistent utility poles.

Round wooden poles are the most common, sometimes with diagonal supports.

You can additionally find a fair amount of square concrete poles, often also with diagonal supports. These are similar to those found in Lithuania.

Trident pole tops are somewhat common: This pole top features one insulator on top, and two to the side.

Most wooden poles have a small metal cap on top, similar to those found in the Nordic countries.

Alongside the Nordic countries of Sweden, Finland and Norway, these caps can also sometimes be found in Latvia.

Outer road lines sometimes consist of short dashes.

Lithuania also sometimes has short dashes.

In addition, Sweden primarily uses short dashes as outer road lines.

Estonia uses red chevrons with white arrows.

Russia and Ukraine use the same chevrons.

However, Latvian and Lithuanian chevrons have the opposite colour scheme: they are white with red arrows.

All Baltic countries use the same blue kilometre marker. However, they can be distinguished from each other by their angle relative to the road.

In Estonia, the marker will be perpendicular to the road. It has numbers on both sides of the marker.

For a quick overview of all three Baltic countries, see this infographic.

Each Baltic country has a slightly different border for its warning and speed signs.

Estonian signs have a thin red border, with no white outline around it (the red border extends all the way to the edge of the sign).

Estonia has normal A-type guardrails with no reflectors. 

The other two Baltic countries can have reflectors on their guardrails. For a good overview of European guardrails, see this infographic.

Estonian pedestrian signs have 3 stripes. The shape of the pedestrian has a relatively high level of detail, detailing shoes and an attached head.

Lithuanian signs also have 3 stripes, but the pedestrian looks less detailed.

Latvian pedestrian signs have 5 stripes.

Estonian bus stop signs have this design.

The bus has four windows. This is mostly useful to distinguish it from the Latvian bus stop sign, which has five windows.

Note, however, that Lithuania has the same bus stop signs as Estonia.

These blue and white signpost wrappings are very common in Estonia.

They are also common in Finland and Sweden.

Estonian belongs to the Finnic language family. It is closely related to Finnish.

Within the Baltic languages, the following letters are unique to Estonian:

Vowels with umlauts (two dots): Ä Ö Ü.

Õ with a tilde.

Latvian and Lithuanian are both Indo-European languages that are not related to Estonian, and therefore look very different.

The Estonian words for street and road are tänav and tee, respectively. These words are unique to Estonian. Tänav is often abbreviated as ‘tn’.

Many streets, especially in urban areas, have a simple name that completely lacks the tänav and or tee suffix.

The Finnish suffix -tie, meaning street, can look similar.

Estonian architecture generally consists of a combination of wood and white brick, typically with somewhat steep corrugated metal roofs. Painted stone walls are also somewhat common. While wooden buildings can be found in all three Baltic countries, they are more common in Estonia.

Directional signs in Estonia are blue with white text and a white outline.

In Finland, the arrow is built into the white border instead of being an icon inside the border. The arrow on Latvian signs is more stylized than in Estonia and Lithuania, where the back part of the arrowhead is vertical.

For many players, this green blur can be hard to identify at first. The location shown in this tip’s image is a fairly extreme example. To familiarise you with how it might look in-game, here are some more examples where it is fairly visible: 1, 2, 3, 4.

This discoloration usually does not occur in Latvia and Lithuania.

It can however also be found in Sweden, often on the island of Gotland.

The Generation 3 coverage in Estonia is more extensive than the other two Baltic countries, meaning that a lot of very rural roads are covered. As a result, if you are considering guessing in one of the Baltic countries, and your location is Generation 3 on a very thin and rural road, you are slightly more likely to be in Estonia.

Of course, use caution. This meta has many variables, and is not always reliable. Only use it as a last resort in no-info Baltic roulette rounds, when you have no better clues available.

Bollard:

Estonia uses a generic black and white bollard, sometimes with yellow replacing the white rectangle. The yellow is usually found at intersections and other major crossings. They feel a bit more “3D” and do not have a number on them like the Latvian bollards.

You can also find these sticks that are painted Yellow and Black. They indicate that there are underground powerlines under the stick.

Road Lines:

Estonia uses all white lines, and still has many dirt/gravel roads.

Sometimes the shoulders are dashed.

Road Signs:

Estonia uses blue backed signs.

The back of Estonian signs have folded edges.

You can find these Green Maple leaf’s in either the front or back of the car. It indicates that the driver of the vehicle is new to driving. It is a common sight across all of Estonia.

Guardrails in Estonia are a bit different. They are traditional guardrails, but they do not have reflectors on the inside.

Electricity poles:

Estonia uses concrete, and wooden poles.

License plates:

Estonia uses the standard EU format.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Estonia is flat country, and well forested.

Architecture:

Estonia has many houses made of wood/brick with corrugated metal rooves.

