Eswatini is extremely hilly with even urban areas rarely being flat. The country’s landscape is fairly green and trees are prevalent. There is one easy method to distinguish the countries that works approximately 90% of the time- Eswatini has trees and Lesotho generally doesn’t. Like the other countries in southern Africa, Eswatini most commonly has the yellow, continuous lines on the edges of the road and some form of white central road marking. Dirt roads are also fairly common in Eswatini. Like Botswana, Lesotho and parts of South Africa, a white car should be visible if you pan down in Eswatini. Eswatini is green and very hilly. It also typically has trees visible. The landscape looks partially similar to Lesotho (both are very hilly and landlocked by South Africa) however Lesotho is largely void of trees. Like South Africa, Botswana and Lesotho, Eswatini most commonly has yellow continuous lines on the edges of its roads and a white marking in the centre. The second most common road lines in Eswatini have the standard yellow edges and the two continuous, white, centre lines encasing a white dashed line. These road markings can also be seen in South Africa, Botswana and Lesotho. Dirt roads are common in Eswatini. Another feature of Eswatini is that it often has long grass. This can help distinguish it from South Africa and Lesotho (which normally has patchy, short grass). The western part of Eswatini often features lots of taller trees packed together in close bunches. The white Street View car is visible in Eswatini. It is also visible in Lesotho, Botswana and parts of South Africa. Like the other southern African countries in GeoGuessr, Eswatini has warning signs featuring a red outline and white centre. Utility poles in Eswatini are generally wooden and fairly rudimentary. They are often fairly dark in colour compared to wooden poles of other countries. A common license plate in Eswatini features a dark blue upper section and yellow-greenish lower section. 

Eswatini’s landscape is known for its green, wooded hills and tall golden grass.

In contrast, Lesotho’s mountains are typically barren, and long grass is not a common sight there.

Poles in Eswatini are made of dark brown wood and follow a simple design. The insulators are mostly mounted on the side.

In Southern Africa, three insulators on the pole are more commonly found in Eswatini.

Roads starting with the letters “MR” are exclusive to Eswatini.

Eswatini typically uses yellow outside lines and occasionally, triple white middle lines.

Similar road lines can also be found in South Africa, Lesotho and Botswana.

Licence plates in Eswatini are long and green at the bottom.

These may look similar to certain South African plates. Make sure to refer to other clues before guessing.

Concrete bus shelters are a common sight on roads in Eswatini.