Ghanaian Street View coverage has its epicentres in Accra and Kumasi. A number of ‘N’ highways stretch around the country, linking up the most populous Ghanaian cities and towns. The easiest way to identify Ghana is to pan down. Ghana is the only country in the world to have this black tape feature, making it readily identifiable. Ghana has a fairly even mixture of cars with yellow rear and front plates and cars with white rear and front plates. Standard Ghanaian license plates are elongated which contrasts most of the license plates in Africa. The southern part of Ghana is relatively green with a tropical tinge whilst the northern part has an environment more resembling a desert or a savanna. The Ghanaian soil is generally a reddish-brown colour. The soil is typically not as red as the Ugandan and Kenyan soils. Urban Ghana has a bustling vibe with motorbikes and bicycles common and people often milling around the streets. There are many signs in urban Ghana and the shops and houses typically have almost flat, corrugated iron roofs. Ghana can be immediately identified as it has black tape around one of the Street View car’s visible bars. Some cars in Ghana have elongated yellow license plates on their rear and front. Other cars in Ghana have elongated white license plates for their rear and front. Southern Ghana tends to be green in colour, have plentiful grass and have tropical, lush vegetation. Northern Ghana has a drier feel which is reflected in its lack of grass and desert-like brown/reddish soil. Ghanaian cities are a hive of activity. Bicycles and motorbikes are common, signs are plentiful and there are often people milling around. A brown/reddish dirt is a common sight across large parts of the country. Ghanaian shops and houses often have corrugated iron roofs. Ghana typically uses these wooden poles that have a horizontal bar with three ‘pine cone’ like protrusions pointing upwards from the bar. 

Several natural reserves were covered with different unique cars.

Ghana uses white plates on normal vehicles, and yellow plates for commercial vehicles. They can be long or short. Because commercial vehicles are really common, you will often see a mix of both plate colours.

Nigeria has similar white plates, but a green tint should be visible, which helps differentiate them.

Ghana is mostly flat with red soil, however hills and mountains can be seen in some regions. Tropical vegetation is very common, and palms are common especially toward the south.

Taxis in Ghana typically have multicoloured body panels. The fenders and quarter panels are always coloured orange-yellow.

Road lines in Ghana are always white. However, many paved roads do not have road lines at all.

Ghana is a patriotic country, and you can often see things painted in the national flag’s colours: red, yellow, green, and sometimes including the black star.

Black and white striped signposts in Ghana are typically seen in cities. On rural roads, you will mostly see classic, non-painted, metal signposts.

Black and white signposts can be seen in other countries as well. Make sure to look at other clues before guessing.

Most Helpful:

The Front Right roof-rack bar has black duct tape on it. There is only one other country / territory that has tape on the bar. Learning the tape meta can help you figure out that you’re in Ghana.

There is a rare “tape-less” Ghana. It can only be found in the town of Boabeng. Its located near the middle of the country. You can sometimes see a small piece of their side mirror on the right hand side.

Bollard:

These KM markers can sometimes be found around Ghana. They will point to some town names, but the text is too small for you to be able to realistically read.

You can also sometimes find these red and white stripped poles around. They are not common, but can be seen occasionally

There is also a chance you can find bollards straight out of the UK.

Unique Vehicles:

You can find the same vans as most of Central Africa. However, the first taxi seems to be a bit more common.

Most of Ghana uses a white divider, whether dashed or solid. There is a chance to find white shoulder lines, but these are usually closer to cities and towns, and not as common out in the rural areas.

There is also a chance that there will be no visible road markings at all, or that you will end up on a dirt road.

License plates:

Ghana uses white and yellow plates. They’re short plates, so its often easy to use to your advantage.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Ghana has some tropical sections to it, with the south having more palm trees than the north.

There is a chance for you to see mountains as well, mostly towards the middle of the country.

Architecture:

The architecture in Ghana is similar to most of the other Central African countries. You can find some interesting religious sites, and those seem to be a bit different.

General Look:

You can find this reddish soil to the middle / east of Ghana. Its close to the border of Togo.

You can find this near the south of Ghana. It feels very green and can be a good sign.

This is the North of the Country. It is definitely a bit more dry than the others.

