Gibraltar is a British overseas territory situated by the southern tip of the Spanish section of the Iberian Peninsula. Gibraltar has the same license plates as the UK with a yellow rear plate and white front plate. Cars drive on the right in Gibraltar unlike the UK. English is used in Gibraltar. The limestone monolith known as the Rock of Gibraltar is a dominant feature in the territory. The landscape is also notable for the sea which acts as a gateway into the Mediterranean. The buildings in Gibraltar are typically tall and either beige or white in colour. It looks somewhat like a magic wand. You will seldom see this aerial outside of Gibraltar. Vehicles in Gibraltar mainly feature yellow rear plates and white front plates- the same style as UK plates. Sometimes you will see standard European plates in Gibraltar thanks to its proximity to Spain. Mopeds are particularly common in Gibraltar. Vehicles drive on the right in Gibraltar which contrasts the UK where vehicles drive on the left. The steep limestone monolith that is the Rock of Gibraltar stands out in the territory of Gibraltar. A reasonable portion of Gibraltar’s landscape consists of steep and narrow roads. The territory of Gibraltar skirts the southern tip of the Iberian Peninsula and the sea is often visible. Buildings in Gibraltar are typically white or beige in colour. They are generally multi-story with high rise buildings being particularly common. 

Gibraltar is a British Overseas Territory located at the southern tip of the Iberian Peninsula, bordering Spain. For country streak purposes, the territory is counted as the United Kingdom.

The territory’s most recognizable feature is the Rock of Gibraltar, a massive limestone mountain that dominates every part of the territory. It can be recognized by its exposed white limestone rocks and distinct shape.

Like the UK, Gibraltar uses yellow back plates on vehicles. 

However, note that unlike the UK, Gibraltar drives on the right.

Unlike the UK, Gibraltar drives on the right.

The main language used in Gibraltar is English. This can be especially helpful if you see English on official signs in a Mediterranean setting.

Note that English is also one of the main languages of Malta, which also has a Mediterranean landscape and vibe.

The urban parts of Gibraltar are mostly fairly dense. Buildings look similar to those found in other Mediterranean countries. They have pastel colours and louvered window shutters (horizontal slats of wood set into a frame). These window shutters are usually painted green, blue or brown.

All coverage is from December, so in many parts of town you will see Christmas decorations.

Gibraltar is famous for its monkeys, of the species Barbary macaque. It is the only place in Europe where you can find wild monkeys.

Near the southern tip of the territory, you will be able to see the minarets of the Ibrahim-al-Ibrahim Mosque, the southernmost mosque in continental Europe.