The easiest way to identify Israel is arguably via its distinctive yellow license plates which feature on the front and rear of their cars. These plates have a blue vertical stripe (much like the European stripe) on the left. Israel’s landscape can surprisingly be rather diverse. Large parts of the country consist of a sandy desert whilst significant sections of Israel also consist of rolling hills. Some of Israel’s most populous cities are built on this undulating terrain. The northern sections of the country are green and the coastline (and areas closer to the coast) are littered with palm trees. Israel’s urban roads are often meandering and difficult to navigate through. Various combinations of alternating stripes commonly appear on curbs with the red and white variant being particularly popular. The base of Israeli street lights also sometimes have stripes- of the black and white variety. Much of the Israeli urban population reside in apartment buildings. Israel’s roads feature yellow, continuous edge lines and a white, dashed, centre line- similar to Jordan and the UAE. Israeli main roads are denoted by a colour and a number. Blue= national roads, red= inner city roads, green= regional roads and black= local roads. Israel has these distinctive yellow license plates on the back and fronts of their cars. There is a blue vertical stripe on the left of these plates, similar to the stripe seen on many European plates. The southern sections of Israel are desert while the northern parts of Israel are more likely to be grassed. Much of Israel is situated on undulating ground, including some of its major cities. Israeli curbs often feature alternating colours, the most common colour combination is red and white. Cream-coloured apartments spanning at least several stories are the most common form of habitation in most of Israel. Israel has a number of different looking utility poles. Some of the more visually unique poles are metal with zigzagging pieces connecting the outer sections. Bollards in Israel often resemble the generic European bollards. Tel-Aviv-Yafo is full of palm trees. This Israeli directional signs features Hebrew, Arabic and Latin lettering. Israeli roads are broken into four main categories- each logo denoted by a colour. Blue= national roads, red= inner city roads, green= regional roads and black= local roads.

Israeli licence plates are yellow with a blue strip on the left.

While this design is specific for Israel, it is also very common on the West Bank. Jordan and the UAE use white licence plates. Tunisia uses black plates.


You will typically find two languages; Hebrew, which is practically only found in Israel and the West Bank, and Arabic, which is particularly common in the West Bank.

The landscape ranges from a greener Mediterranean landscape in the north, to a very arid landscape in the south.

You will very often see striped kerbs: red and white and fairly commonly black and white.

Red and yellow and blue and white are rarely found.

Most roads feature yellow outer lines with white centre lines.

Utility poles commonly feature these painted black and white striped bottoms.

Chevrons are white on black.

Utility poles with a mesh framework are very common.

You can often find yellow warning sign on poles.

Kilometre markers are white with a thick red border.

Rather than having a word meaning ‘stop’ written on them, stop signs have a hand painted on them.

Road Lines:

Israeli roads use yellow shoulders with white centre lines.

Road Signs:

In Israel, there are diamond shaped signs will tell you which road you are on.

Electricity poles:

Israel features a mix of concrete and metal poles.

License plates:

Despite not being in the EU Israel uses an Eu styled plate in yellow.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Israel is a fairly mountainous country, with very lush green hills in the north, and very dry arid desert in the south.

Israeli street lights on motorways will often have black and white stripes painted at the base.


Northern israel is very lush and green.

The south however is very arid and dry.
