Jordan roads tend to be of inferior quality to the newer roads of the UAE. Jordan has many curbs that have a yellow and black striped pattern. These curbs are typically rather faded whereas curbs in the UAE often look newly. Much of Jordan consists of rolling hills. This contrasts the UAE which is dead flat except for the mountains in the far north-east. Like the UAE, Jordan’s road markings tend to consist of yellow, continuous edge lines and some form of white centre lines. A large portion of Jordan’s population reside in apartment buildings. These buildings are normally cream in colour, shaped like a rectangular prism, have a flat roof and many windows. Jordan’s directional signs are blue with white lettering. Their standard highways consist of yellow numbers written on a green rectangle. Jordan uses Arabic and English is a rarer commodity here than in the UAE although English sometimes features on Jordan’s road signs. The Jordan landscape features a desert. Parts of Jordan are flat whilst other parts are rather hilly. Like the UAE, Jordan’s roads typically have yellow continuous edge lines and some form of white centre line. Various parts of Jordan are quite mountainous and much of Jordan consists of undulating ground. This contrasts the UAE which is generally flat except for the north-eastern section which is sheer mountains. Jordan normally has cylindrical-like shaped utility poles. Standard highways in Jordan are denoted by a green rectangle and a number in yellow lettering. Shop signs in Jordan are much more likely to feature only Arabic than the UAE which tends to have both Arabic and English. Arabic can be recognised thanks to the letters resembling calligraphy and thanks to the horizontal line under most of the writing.

Jordanian licence plates are white and can be long or short. Commercial transport vehicles, such as taxis, have a distinctive green strip on the left.

In the Middle East, the green strip is only found in Jordan.

The UAE also uses long white plates. Israel however only uses yellow licence plates. In Palestine, both white domestic and yellow Israeli plates are common.

The official language used in Jordan is Arabic and can be identified by its lines and dots.

Jordanian chevrons are white with red arrows.

You can use chevrons to distinguish between Jordan and Israel: the Israeli chevrons are black with white arrows.

These are three common electricity poles that you will find in Jordan. Rounded concrete poles have either a diagonal support or consist of three horizontal Y pole tops. You may additionally see thin, two support metal poles with three vertical coils.

On occasion, the road quality in Jordan is reflective of its age. Roads are well travelled and can be in poor condition. The heat has caused the asphalt to buckle, creating warped cracks in the road.

In general, the road quality as a whole tends to be worse than Israel.

Road Lines:

Jordan has yellow shoulder lines with white centre lines.

Road Signs:

Jordan will sometime have English translations for settlements.

Sometimes Jordan uses black and white striped poles.

Electricity poles:

Jordan uses metal, and wooden poles.

License plates:

Jordan uses white plates.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Jordan is a desert country but is also quite mountainous.

Architecture:

Jordan has many white stone buildings with flat roofs.

Common vehicles:

Jordan has quite a few yellow roofed taxis with green or silver bottoms.
