When it comes to identifying Montenegro the easiest way is via the giant rifts in the sky. In most of the country, the rifts are visible except for the area south-west of Podgorica. Albania is the only other country in Europe to have the rifts visible however these are rarer in Albania. Montenegro also stands out for its mountainous landscape across most of the country. The country has many license plates with the standard blue vertical stripe of Europe in tandem with a red marking just to the left of the plate’s centre. Montenegrin bollards are the same style to those found in Slovenia, Serbia and some of those in Austria. The signs in Montenegro also provide clues to the country’s identity. Brown signs with white lettering are common as are the yellow signs with black lettering. Many of the large signs have a corrugated back. The smaller signs in Montenegro tend to have a white outline. You will rarely see Cyrillic in the country. If you do, С́ and З́ are letters unique to Montenegrin Cyrillic. Montenegrin Latin has Č, Ć, Š, Ś, Ž and Ź. Almost all of Montenegro is undulating. The country is rather mountainous. Bollards in Montenegro look similar to Slovenian, Serbian and some Austrian bollards. Most plates in Montenegro look like standard European plates however Montenegro’s plates often have a red section just to the left of the centre. The right side of the plate may also appear darker. Most road signs have a white outline in Montenegro. Montenegro’s directional road signs are often yellow with black lettering. Montenegro also has many brown signs with white lettering. Montenegrin houses tend to come in a range of styles and colours. They most commonly have the terracotta coloured roofs.

Montenegro uses the standard European plate with a blue strip, and the Montenegro coat of arms on a red circle. The red circle is often visible through the blur.

The white section of Albanian licence plates do not have a red circle.

Montenegro is a small, mountainous country. Inland mountains are lush and green, while most coastal mountains have distinct exposed, light coloured rock. Most roads are also only 1 or 2 lanes wide.

The most common bollard is white with a red reflector on the front and a white one on the back. The bollard also has a black top.

These bollards are also found in Slovenia.

Montenegro uses black on white or red on yellow chevrons.

Albania uses white on black chevrons.

Guardrails in Montenegro are often rusted.

Montenegro is the only Balkan country where you’ll commonly see both A-type and B-type guardrails.

Montenegro uses simple round concrete or wooden poles.


Montenegro has rifts, as well as a unique license plate. The crest in the middle of the plate can usually be seen through the blur. Mixed in with the rifts, and you know you are in Montenegro.

Montenegro uses white bollards with black caps, and red rectangles sections.

Stone blocks appear on curves in the mountains and they are similar to the ones in Albania and Bhutan.

Guardrails in Montenegro can have a yellow paint job that seems to be rusted.


Unique Vehicle:

Taxi’s in Montenegro don’t really follow any patterns. The colors seem to be company or driver specific. The only determining factor of a taxi is the overhead sign that indicates a car is a taxi.

Most people seem to use their personal vehicle, although a lot of them are similar looking.

Road Lines:

Montenegro uses all white lines.

Montenegro also uses thin roads that can also be found in Croatia.

Road Signs:

Montenegro uses yellow, brown and blue backed signs.

Montenegro’s road information signs have a white edge.

Electricity poles:

Montenegro uses wooden and concrete poles.

Montenegro also seems to sometimes use their light poles to carry wires. This is not very common throughout most of the world.

License plates:

Montenegro uses the standard EU style plate but with the countries crest in the center.
The first two letters of the license plate indicate the city the car is from. PG stands for the capital, Podgorica.
The map below indicates the code for the license plates, if you are to find one that is unblurred.

Vegetation/Landscape:

The Durmitor Mountains are a unique section of the country.

Montenegro features a very mountainous landscape, sometimes with piles of dried hay or grass can be found in rural locations.

Architecture:

Montenegrin houses often have red tiled roofs.


The Bay of Kotor is quite unique, with very steep and sharp looking mountains, surrounding a bay.
