The easiest way to recognise Portugal is via its unique license plates. These have a vertical yellow stripe on the right of the plate to go along with the vertical blue European stripe on the left of the plate. Most of the country has white coloured (or at least fair-coloured) houses, many with terracotta coloured tiles on their roofs. The Portuguese landscape has a real Mediterranean vibe. There are rolling hills mainly in the north of the country and much of Portugal is covered in olive trees. Only Portugal and Brazil speak Portuguese in the entire GeoGuessr world (although Macau also use the language). There are three key factors to help identify Portuguese from Spanish. Portuguese has the ‘Ç’ symbol, many words in Portuguese end in ‘ção’ and Portuguese has the symbol ã which is a squiggly line over the ‘a’ which is different from an accent. Portugal stands out for its license plates. The right side of the plates have a vertical yellow stripe that is clearly visible. Portuguese plates also have the standard, European blue, vertical stripe on the left of their plates. Many Portuguese houses are white or light coloured and many have tiled, terracotta coloured roofs. Parts of Portugal (especially the north of the country) are hilly. Olive trees are a common sight right across the country. Much of Portugal has a warm, Mediterranean vibe. Portugal looks very dry and is largely undulating. It can look similar to Mediterranean parts of Eastern Europe however Portuguese roads tend to be better maintained. Portugal uses these fairly generic bollards. The front contains a vertical, white stripe encased in the black section. There is a rarer type of Portuguese bollard that has a fatter orange rectangle in place of the white stripe. This is the fairly generic rear of the Portuguese bollards. Portugal has two main types of utility poles. The first type is more unique looking and has small holes running vertically up it. Sometimes Portuguese utility poles of this style will have less holes. The second type of Portuguese utility pole is wooden. It often looks fairly rudimentary and can have lumps on its surface as opposed to being smooth. Portuguese ‘no hunting’ signs will sometimes appear on the edge of farms. These signs come in two forms- the tiny red and white diamond as pictured above or a small, red and white sign that looks identical to the Indonesian flag. If you are in a Portuguese town/city, you should see a sidewalk. Portuguese sidewalks are unique and consist of small white squares placed together at a diagonal from the road. They resemble a mosaic. Portugal and Brazil are the only Portuguese speaking locations in GeoGuessr (although Macau also uses the language). There are a few easy ways to tell Portuguese from Spanish. Portuguese has the ‘Ç’ symbol whilst Spanish doesn’t - this is a regularly occurring symbol in Portuguese so many signs will feature it. Another tell is that many words in Portuguese end in ‘ção’. Finally, Portuguese has the symbol ã which is an ‘a’ with a squiggle on its top (this is different from an accent). The island of Madeira is one of two autonomous regions of Portugal. It is recognisable thanks to the Portuguese licence plates with the yellow vertical stripe on the right, the utility poles which have horizontal strats and often holes, the white blocks along the sides of some roads and notably the mountainous terrain across the entire island. The second autonomous region of Portugal is the Azores. The Azores archipelago has Street View coverage on São Miguel Island (the island that houses Ponta Delgada) and Terceira Island (the island that contains Angra do Heroísmo and Praia da Vitória). Although the Azores has the same license plates and utility poles as Madeira, it stands out as it is much flatter and whilst having some rolling hills, lacks the steep mountains of Madeira.

Bollard:

Portugal uses fairly generic black and white bollards.

Road Lines:

Portugal uses all white lines.

Road Signs:

Portugal uses a couple different styles of signs, however they are pretty useful to identify the country coming in white, brown, and blue.

Electricity poles:

Portugal uses concrete ‘ladder’ style poles that taper towards the top. Sometimes you may find wooden poles.

License plates:

Portugal uses the EU style plate but with a yellow bar on the right hand side also.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Portugal is a dry looking country but still very green, it has mountains in the north and the south is more flat.

Madeira has some unique bollards.

Architecture:

Portugal features a lot of white painted houses often with orange tiled rooves.
