Senegal and Tunisia are the French speaking, mainland African countries and both countries drive on the right. Senegal has distinctive blue license plates that no other country in GeoGuessr possesses. Another notable feature of Senegal is its reddish soil that is visible across most of the country. Even if this soil isn’t obviously visible in the landscape, it should be visible between the edge of the road and the grass. If the reddish soil isn’t visible then a soil with a more brownish hue should be around you. A savanna-like environment covers most of Senegal featuring dry grassland and dispersed, low, spiky bushes. The most common road lines in Senegal feature white dashes on the edges of the road and white dashes in the middle of the road. Cars in Senegal have these distinctive looking, blue licence plates. Some form of reddish soil is normally visible throughout the entire central and nothern part of Senegal. Sometimes it will only be visible on the sides of the road between the grass and the asphalt. The Senegalese landscape often consists of dry grass and small, spiky bushes. The southern part (approximately 1/3rd) of Senegal tends to have long grass that is green in colour. The central and norther parts of Senegal typically have desert sand or short, dry grass. Urban areas of Senegal typically feature brick buildings painted white or light colours. These structures often show signs of wear such as parts of the building crumbling or the painting having eroded away. Senegalese utility poles typically have three of these pine cone shaped objects either pointing upwards or downwards. This is the second type of Senegalese utility pole. Note the pine cone shaped objects pointing down. Also note the indents in the pole. Senegal’s road lines often feature white dashes on the edges and white dashes in the centre. These dashes commonly appear faded and sometimes it can be difficult to notice them. Sometimes dirt has blown over the road and it can be challenging to see the lines. French is the official language of Senegal. As a result, most of the writing you will see in this country will be in French. 

Senegal is the only African country to use fully blue licence plates.

Senegal drives on the right.

This is mostly useful to distinguish it from Kenya, which drives on the left. The other countries with coverage in Africa that drive on the right are Ghana, Nigeria, Rwanda and Tunisia.

Being a former French colony, Senegal uses French infrastructure such as bollards, poles, signs and road lines.

The official and most common language seen in Senegal is French.

The road number and the distance to the nearest towns can be seen on these white kilometre markers with a red top.

The town that is the furthest distance away is usually the largest.

Most town entry signs in Senegal are white and feature a thick pink outline. The town is also written in a bold, black font.

These simple black lamps with a solar panel at the top are commonly seen in Senegal.

Yellow-orange taxis with black fenders can commonly be seen in Senegal.

Bollards:

Bollards are rare in Senegal, and due to that there are a few varieties. While there may be a pattern, I couldn’t figure it out. 
Most of these bollards are located near drainage areas or curves. They’re not marked on the sides of the roads anywhere else, unlike the marker below.

These bollards seem to be around some curves in the South East of the Country.

These have towns located, as well as distances. They may be tough to see, but they are extremely helpful.


Unique Vehicle:

These taxis seem to have a unique paintjob. It is alternating black and yellow, with orange sometimes being used. There are a few rare examples of the car not having this paintjob, but more often than not, it has a paint job similar to the image.

Touba on the other hand, doesn’t use this paint job. It often features taxis with a solid paint job, often white, black or blue.

Pretty typical country road, with dashed white lines marking the center divider as well as the shoulders. There are roads that don’t fit this look, but this is very common.

There are also places where a solid white line can be found, as well as spots that have a double white divider line.

Electricity poles:

This is the most common, often found along major roads and the smaller roads that have power.

This is the second most common, sometimes found alongside the first pole mentioned above.

License plates:

These have been the same license plates for over 20 years. It is a blue plate with white lettering, and the only blue plate in Africa. The DK stands for Dakar and the KD stands for Kolda.

