The next left side of the road driving country in Africa is Uganda. The soil in Uganda is largely reddish and indeed there is a similar reddish tone to Kenya’s soil. Uganda has a mixture of paved roads and unpaved, dirt roads. On average, Ugandan roads seem to be narrower than Kenyan roads. Uganda has yellow rear plates and white front plates- the same combination as Kenya. Other than the distinctive reddish dirt, the Ugandan landscape features green, tropical-like flora and often many signs. One of the defining characteristics of Uganda is its red soil. This soil colour is also found in other parts of Africa, namely Kenya. As with some other African locations, there are signs aplenty if Uganda. Dirt roads are common in Uganda. Ugandan roads seem to be narrower on average than Kenyan roads. The Ugandan landscape often features green, lush and tropical looking flora. The rear license plates in Uganda are yellow. Sometimes the rear plates will appear more elongated. Ugandan front and back plates look the same as Kenyan front and back plates. The front license plates in Uganda are white. Ugandan National parks have dirt roads. The landscape often consists of patchy grass and scattered flora. Uganda uses fairly generic wooden utility poles. The poles do have one uniqueness- the powerlines are often connected to the pole on three levels.

Uganda drives on the left hand side of the road.

African countries are split between right and left hand drive. 
Uganda uses white front plates with yellow rear plates. These plates can be long or tall.

Unique Vehicle:

Uganda has these vans that they use as taxi’s. They can be different colors, but the white and the light blue seem to be the most common. Regardless, the pattern that appears midway through the car can be found on nearly all of them, and can be seen on busses around the city. There are other companies that appear to use these vans without the pattern.

Road Lines:

Road lines are not common in Uganda, but will be all white if you do find them. The only paved roads in Uganda are in the Kampala – Entebee region.

Road / Street Signs:

Some of the colors in Uganda are definitely unique, and most signs can only be found in the Kampala – Entebee region.

Backs of the street signs have plenty of fasteners and two bars to connect the fasteners too.

There are a few rail lines in Uganda, and their signage indicating it is very easy to spot.

Electricity poles:

There are two varieties of poles in Uganda. They’re both wooden poles, but contain slight differences. One pole has a strip with 3 voltage relays, while the other pole has a metal circle near the top. You can generally find both in Kampala and the surrounding area.

You can also find this Double pole. It is found near the main roads of Kampala.

There seem to be a lot of ads on Light poles near major intersections. A lot of them have to do with Sexuality and health care.

You can sometimes find traffic lights in Uganda. Most of the time, there will be a Traffic Police officer nearby as well.

License plates:

Uganda uses white front and yellow rear plates.

These are the area codes for Uganda, but not all of them are important. 

Vegetation/Landscape:

Uganda has very reddish / orange soil, however there are places where it can be darker. There are also plenty of regions that are picturesque safari locations. The car in Uganda is incredibly useful.

Architecture:

There are a variety of houses all around Uganda, and these are just some examples of them. Check back to the Most Useful section at the top for the most important tips and tricks.
