The easiest way to recognise the United Kingdom immediately is via the yellow rear license plates in combination with white front plates. Some plates on Corsica are yellow reared and white fronted however Corsica looks vastly different in landscape from the U.K.. The U.K also stands out in Europe for driving on the left. Signage indicating the nearest large town is often present at these roundabouts. Like Ireland, the United Kingdom’s roads are largely skirted by hedges with small rocky walls also being prevalent. The U.K. has their home satellite dishes facing in a south-easterly direction. Townhouses are particularly common in the U.K. and they tend to be double-storey and squished side-by-side. There tends to be the same looking townhouse all the way down the street in the U.K. In other words, if you see a townhouse on a U.K. street, the same variant of townhouse will likely run down the whole street. One of the easiest ways to recognise the U.K. is via their yellow rear license plates. UK cars have white front plates. This combination of plate colours is particularly rare in the rest of the world. Cars in the U.K. drive on the left which is a rarity in Europe with only Ireland and Malta also driving on the left. The U.K. also stands out of using miles, yards and pounds. Roundabouts are a common fixture in the UK. They often provide useful information about nearby town names and road numbers. The UK often has two continuous yellow road lines on the sides of marked roads. Small rocky walls are a common fixture in the U.K., especially in Scotland (Ireland also has an abundance of these walls as do some islands). It is fairly rare to see rocky walls in the southern part of England. If there are hedgerows then you are more likely to be in the southern part of England. Stone walls are more common in the rest of the U.K. A confirmatory sign you are the UK is to look for house satellite dishes. These all point to the south east in the UK. TV satellite dishes in the UK point south-east. Continuing on the grey theme, grey buildings are more of a common sight in Scotland than in England. Scotland tends to have a higher percentage of grey coloured houses and buildings than England. Townhouses like those pictured are common in the U.K. Bricks are used to construct a large portion of houses in Great Britain whilst in Ireland, brick is very rare. The UK stands out from Ireland as it has these warning signs. This is the most common warning sign in Europe but contrasts the yellow diamond of Ireland. Although bollards are relatively rare in the UK compared to some other European countries, they are rather unique looking and consist of black and white sections with a large red rectangle on top. Although rather rare, Scotland has these white, cylindrical bollards that have either a red or white horizontal ring. The United Kingdom has a varied landscape. Northern Scotland has few trees. Much of the U.K. has narrow, windy roads, hedges skirting the sides of the roads and green fields. 

UK front plates are white, while back plates are yellow. Some plates have a blue strip on the left, but most do not.

Additionally, you might see a plate with a green ‘Zero Emissions’ strip.

Ireland uses white front and back plates, always with a blue strip on the left.

The UK drives on the left side of the road.

The UK, Ireland, and Malta are the only European countries that drive on the left.

Double yellow road lines are often found on the sides of marked roads, especially in urban areas. These lines indicate a no stopping zone.

These middle lines, that consist of long dashes with cat’s eyes (reflectors) in the gaps between the dashes, are a good clue for the UK.

The most common bollard in the UK looks like this. It has a rounded shape, with a red reflector on the front and a white one on the back. The base and top are black, with a white stripe in the middle.

The UK uses wooden poles. Pole steps bolted on the side of the pole are very common. These pole steps are shaped like a series of thin horizontal metal rods.

Ireland also commonly uses wooden poles with pole steps.

Chevrons are black with white arrows.

Irish chevrons are black with yellow arrows. French chevrons are blue with white arrows.

Like most European countries, the UK uses triangular warning signs with a red border and a white background.

This is mostly useful to distinguish between the UK and Ireland, as Ireland uses diamond-shaped yellow warning signs (being the only European country to do so).

Direction signs in the United Kingdom can be blue, green, or white.
Look for the letters A or M, as these are the major roads in the country. Smaller roads start with B.

Irish direction signs are typically bilingual, with Irish names in italics, making them easy to distinguish from the UK ones.

The UK commonly uses these white street signs with black text, that are positioned low to the ground. They are usually supported by two small posts. Many street signs in suburban areas will have a small cul-de-sac icon.

They can sometimes have different colours or feature small designs, like coats of arms.

UK yield signs feature the phrase “GIVE WAY”.

Irish yields signs just have the word “YIELD”.

The yellow warning stickers on utility poles can be a good way to distinguish between the UK and Ireland.

The most important difference is that UK stickers feature a guy getting zapped by a lightning bolt. 

The Irish stickers usually have a lightning bolt, but lack the guy getting zapped. They also often have an extra second rectangular sticker with a black outline, below the lightning bolt.

This yellow traffic bollard is commonly found in the UK.

Pedestrian crossing signs are almost non-existent in the UK. Instead, pedestrian crossings will often have these distinctive black and white striped poles, with a yellow light bulb on top.

These signposts are also common in Ireland.

The British countryside tends to be very green, with lots of hedgerows lining the road. Low, rolling hills are common throughout most of the country.

The Irish countryside looks very similar, so make sure to look at other clues before guessing.

Terraced houses (row houses) are very common in the UK. This housing type shares walls on both sides with neighbouring homes. You will also see a lot of semi-detached houses, which share just one side wall with another house.

61% of the population lives in terraced or semi-detached houses, significantly more than most other European countries. The only European countries where terraced houses are this common are Ireland and the Netherlands.

Red brick buildings are common in many parts of the UK.

Red brick architecture is also common in the Netherlands, Belgium, and Denmark, as well as parts of northern France.

Suburbs in UK towns tend to have a recognizable look. They typically feature near-identical houses, often semi-detached, usually with well-manicured lawns. The road layout can be maze-like, with lots of cul-de-sacs and curvy roads.

Many British buildings have distinct-looking chimneys with multiple so-called chimney pots. These pots are usually round and brick-coloured.

Some buildings, both old and new, feature black-and-white timber framing.

Capital City:

London

Bollard:

This bollard has a very large red reflector on the top.

Road Lines:

The UK often will have either single or double yellow lines outside with white in the center of the road.

Road Signs:

Signs in the UK can be white, green and blue. Look for the letters A or M, as these are the major roads throughout the country.

Road Layout:

Britain within the UK uses a system by which to number it’s roads. A roads are usually main roads, and B roads are usually smaller.

Electricity poles:

The UK uses wooden Electricity poles that look like these.

License plates:

The UK uses white front, and yellow rear plates. Some feature the EU blue left side however this isn’t always the case.

General look:

The UK can vary between its individual countries by look, however most urban areas look similar, the main differences occurring in more rural regions, Scotland being the most mountainous, followed by Wales, then England, and Northern Ireland.
The UK will often have large hedges on the both sides of rural roads.

