Vietnam has the rare warning signs featuring a triangle with a red outline and yellow filling. Vietnam also have unique red and white stripe poles holding up their road signs. The Vietnamese landscape is urban and thus features busy roads, shops lining the roads and a side of Vietnam that is relatively wealthy compared to some neighbouring countries. Vietnamese is a recognisable language thanks to its abundance of short words and numerous symbols added to many letters. The streets are generally crowded, there are lots of motorbike/moped riders, shops line the streets and drivers drive on the right. Vietnamese sign posts are uniquely red and white striped. These poles hold up most types of official road signs. Vietnam has warning signs featuring a red outline and yellow filling. The only other Asian country with these signs is South Korea. In Vietnam, shop fronts regularly list their address. The Vietnamese language is a unique language in Asia. It is full of very short words with a large number of words being three letters long. There are also a range of symbols on top of (and sometimes below) Vietnamese letters. This is rare elsewhere in Asia. 

How To Read Addresses:

Almost all of the addresses in Vietnam will have a city listed. The first part of that line is the address, including the street. You can also see a phone number towards the end.

There is also this note about food items.

Bollard:

These bollards are pretty French. They seem to be cement and are painted white with a red top. Its important to note that these were not taken from Street view, so its tough to say if learning these will be useful due to Vietnam being mostly city coverage.

These KM Markers look like the markers we see in a lot of South East Asia. The language itself is what is different.


Road Lines:

Vietnam uses a yellow divider line and what appears to be nothing for the sides.

Road Signs:

These are the common signs for most cities. Almost every pole will be painted this red and white striped pattern.

There are unique signs for cities. The one above can only be found in Hanoi. It has a little temple in the top left hand corner.

These are only found in Hue. It has a boat/temple in the middle of the sign.

Electricity poles:

The poles in Vietnam are nothing special, However, they have so many different wires going into them. Its a clear sign you’re in Vietnam.

License plates:

Both of these license plates can be found around the country.

