Bolivia has mountains running from the North West (not the celebrity) to south of the country but it is flat away from this area. In general, Bolivia most closely resembles Peru, except for being more flat than Peru. Bolivia is typically dry and lacks much flora or greenery.
Bolivian houses resemble Peruvian houses as they are typically made of brick with flat roofs and in a dry landscape, void of vegetation. Most of Bolivia has signs held up by thick, wooden, unpainted posts. The outlying areas of the Atacama Desert cover the western and south-western parts of the country. The eastern part of Bolivia around Santa Cruz is green and lush as well as the area north of La Paz and Cochabamba. The green landscape is more of an aberration in Bolivia with most of the country dry with less flora. Bolivia can have bollards but they are rather rare. The bollards are cigarette shaped with a red stripe near the top. As well as regular, cylindrical utility poles, the most common form of utility pole in Bolivia is asymmetrical and has one diagonal bar stemming from the pole to the horizontal bar, forming a right-angle triangle.


Road Lines:

Like most of the rest of the western hemisphere, Bolivia uses yellow center lines and white outside lines. However, it is not uncommon that paved roads will have no painted lines at all.

Road Signs:

Like the rest of South America, Bolivian stop signs have “Pare” written on them.
Bolivia is very inconsistent in terms of sign color and format.
The most useful signs are signs indicating town directions, which can be either blue or green.

Bolivia can be distinguished through its use of wooden posts on all signs.

License plates:

License plates in Bolivia are white with blue text and the plate number is 3 or 4 digits followed by 3 letters. The sides of commercial vehicles (e.g. taxis) have license plates, much like Colombia and Peru.

Architecture:

There are two types of architecture found in Bolivia: colonial and contemporary. Colonial architecture is mostly found in the form of white-washed walls with tiled roofs.

Vegetation/Landscape:

The single best way of telling apart regions of Bolivia is through landscape and climate.
Lake Titicaca-La Paz-Oruro area is mostly flat with occasional rolling hills and mountains which can be seen in the distance; it is relatively green, but treeless.

The Oruro-Potosi-Chile Border area is extremely arid and it is barren except for yellow “poofy” grasses littering the landscape. The Oruro-Potosi-Chile Border area can range from flat to mountainous and there are also a few large volcanoes.

The Cochabamba-Sucre Area has a semi-arid or Mediterranean climate and its hilly and mountainous terrain is mostly covered in bushes or shrubs, but there may be occasional trees.

The Vallegrande-Santa Cruz de La Sierra-Villamontes area is a tropical or semi-tropical area that is hilly or sort of mountainous, with densely covered vegetation – mostly bushes and lowish trees.

The area north and east of Santa Cruz de La Sierra is extremely flat and tropical and is mostly covered in open grassland with low trees and shrubs or swamps.