Botswana’s main roads are in excellent condition, looking almost brand new. Botswana’s highway signs look similar to South Africa’s. Botswanan highways start with the letters ‘A’ or ‘B’ followed by a number, this contrasts South Africa which most commonly uses R, N and M. The main highways- the A1, A2 and A3  form a ring around Botswana.  The landscape in Botswana is flat and largely a mixture of desert and savanna. Short, sprawling trees are found all over Botswana, sometimes with leaves and sometimes without. Botswana uses black and yellow stripes for its sign poles and blueish obelisk shaped structures for its most common bollards. The most common road markings in Botswana feature yellow, continuous edge lines and some form of white middle line, but these line markings are also common in South Africa, Eswatini and Lesotho. Outside yellow road lines in arid environments also exist in Israel, Palestine, Jordan, and the UAE. However, these countries all drive on the right side. In populated Botswanan areas, you will often encounter dirt or sand roads. Unpaved roads can also be seen in the more remote areas of Botswana. Botswana tends to use the fairly generic looking, cylindrical, wooden utility poles that are found right acros southern Africa. There are few cars in Botswana and license plates are therefore quite a rear sight. Cars in Botswana have white front plates and yellow rear plates, similar to UK-style license plates. Botswana is the only country in southern Africa, where yellow rear license plates are predominantly found.
In the western half of botswana you will see a sandy ground with grass patches. In the mid-eastern part of Botswana, the ground is fully covered with short grass and there are more trees. This mid-eastern area is also more populated than the remainder of Botswana. The far north-eastern part of Botswana stands out for its long grass and much greener trees. The far eastern part of Botswana has lots of visible sand, however the sand is harder, packed together and rocky (it resembles coarse dirt more than sand).


Signs in Botswana are usually in English, but most town names are derived from the indigenous languages spoken in the country. The Afrikaans language, which is closely related to Dutch and common in South Africa, is very rare in Botswana.

The typical Botswana landscape is dry and mostly flat, though a limited amount of elevation can be found in certain regions. Common vegetation includes shrubs, small trees, and occasionally dry, golden grasslands. The soil is arid, sandy and ranges in colour from white to red.


Botswana has a unique black-and-yellow striped sign post. More rarely, you can see red-and-white sign posts.

In Southern Africa, these sign posts are only found in Botswana.

Curbs and guardrails are usually striped, often in black-and-yellow, red-and-white, or black-and-white.

Small red-and-white chevrons can sometimes be found next to the road.

Just like the other Southern African countries, direction signs in Botswana have a green background.

Some older road signs in Botswana have a blue background, but more commonly you will see modern road signs that feature a white background.


Typical Botswana houses range from small impoverished shacks to comfortable middle-class bungalows. Some buildings have exposed grey bricks. On occasion, you might find traditional round huts.


Unique Vehicle:

Like in most of the African Continent, you can often see vans.


There are also plenty of road signs that have a yellow and black pattern. These are located in / near the major cities. You can also find the curbs following a similar pattern across the country.

Architecture:

There seems to be a lot of Brick houses, as well as these plaster houses.

