Bulgaria is one of the poorest countries in Europe and the Bulgarian roads reflect this fact. There are roads that are crumbling and filled with cracks and holes. Bulgaria also has many old-fashioned cars and an abundance of Dacia Sandero, much like Romania and Spain. Bulgaria is a hilly country in some parts and depending on the time the imagery was taken, the trees may have green leaves. Large metal bins / dumpsters are also a common sight in Bulgaria. Bollards are a rare sight in Bulgaria. You will most likely see both Cyrillic and Latin on official signs however shops tend to have more Cyrillic writing. Recognising Bulgarian from Cyrillic letters is challenging as there are no Cyrillic letters unique to Bulgarian Cyrillic. It’s a common sight in Bulgaria to see trees without leaves lining the side of the road. Similar bleak, winter scenery is found in Hungary and parts of Czechia.
Bulgarian houses feature roofs that aren’t very steep and tend to be the same shade of terracotta. Bulgarian houses are predominantly light coloured or have a brick exterior. The houses are often run-down.


Bollard:

In comparison to other countries, it’s not very likely that you will see a bollard in Bulgaria.

Sometimes, bollards are replaced with things that look like Manhole covers.

Unique Vehicle:

The taxis in Bulgaria all seem to be painted yellow and have a black and white checkered board pattern on the sides. Occasionally, there will be a company logo on the doors and hood of the taxi vehicles.

Road Lines:

Most Bulgarian roads have just white stripes in the middle of the road.

Bulgaria can have dashes on the outside of the road, but they are thinner than Romanian dashes.

Road Signs:

In Bulgaria they write in Cyrillic, however most road signs have the cities or street names mentioned in Latin as well.
Note that on highways the signs are in green, whereas along smaller roads they are in blue.


Electricity poles:

Within Bulgaria, you can find a wide range of electricity poles and the most common ones have hook shaped insulators, similar to Latvian poles.

License plates:

The first few letters on the license plates will tell you which region the vehicle is from.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Considering its relatively small size, Bulgaria has a great variety of topographical features.
Snow-capped peaks are found in Rila, Pirin and the Balkan Mountains, which contrasts the mild and sunny Black Sea coast and the mediterranean parts of the country.


Bulgaria has substantial land in agriculture and forest.

Architecture:

Bulgaria is full with old Soviet style buildings.

Also, within Sofia you can find some modern, or refurbished flats.

In rural areas, almost every house has a red tiled roof. Walls are made either of plain red brick or a grey/brown colored stone.

