Colombia's cars typically have yellow license plates, something that is unique in South America. Colombian taxis are always a pastel yellow colour. As opposed to private vehicles, Colombia's commercial vehicles (e.g. taxis) have white licence plates that are often on the side or the roof. The license plates often feature the city or area name. Colombian taxis also have the city name on their roof.
The country is very religious, so the back of road signs often feature crosses, which is very rare in the rest of the world. Colombia also have very narrow, white poles holding up many of their signs. The Colombian landscape is very green and tropical with thick foliage being a common sight. However, the northern section of Colombia is flat and dry looking. Much of Colombia has a hilly or mountainous landscape and many of the Colombian roads are dirt. Colombia often has colourful houses with corrugated iron roofs.
Within Colombia, rudimentary fences that consist of misshapen wooden branches placed at intervals and connected by some wire are a common sight (especially in rural Colombia). Colombia has a large number of yellow-and-black or orange-and-black striped poles that sometimes extend to traffic lights. Signs in Colombia are held up by very narrow poles that are painted white.


Colombia uses two unique types of kilometre markers: a tall green version with the letters “Pr” at the top, and the traditional stone marker with black lettering.

Wooden fences are particularly common in Colombia. In addition to the unpainted variants, some fence posts are painted and sharp at the top.

Colombian poles are generally concrete with a variety of pole tops.

Moreover, dark-coloured poles are more common in Colombia than in neighbouring countries.

Colombia is the only country in the Americas, apart from Mexico and Ecuador, where octagonal poles can be found.

In Colombia, it is particularly common for sidewalks to be decorated with reddish tiles.

Road Lines:

Like most of the Western Hemisphere, the shoulder lines are white while the center divider is yellow.

Road Signs:

All sign posts are white and slim compared to other countries and they feature a unique grey cross on the back. Speed signs are round with a red outside and white inside (like Brazil).

