One of the easiest ways to identify Denmark is via its road markings. These most commonly feature tiny, white squares along the sides of the road. If you are looking straight ahead, you may mistake these tiny squares for a continuous line however by panning down or looking lower you can distinctly see that they are tiny squares. Other Danish road markings exist including long white dashes on the sides of the road which have the smallest gap imaginable between them. Across the majority of Denmark, you will see some semblance of the blue Street View car although this can sometimes be challenging to see. Denmark’s bollards are another quintessentially Danish convention. They consist of white posts with a distinct yellow quadrilateral on the front.   Danish directional signs are another way to identify the country. These contrast the other directional signs across Europe and feature the colours on the Danish flag- red and white. There are lower versions of these signs that retain the same colours. These often appear at intersections and point the way to the nearest town, providing useful help in pinpointing your precise location. Denmark has standard European warning signs- triangular with a thick red outline and white interior. These contrasts the yellow interior of Finnish, Norwegian and Icelandic signs. Danish street/road signs will often end in the suffixes of ‘…vej’ and ‘gade’. Denmark’s landscape is very flat. There are many fields in Denmark and these often contain dry grass. The Danish landscape has a much warmer feel than the other Nordic countries and it features less vegetation than Norway, Sweden and Finland. It also features a different type of vegetation- more bush and less birch-style trees. Denmark uses the standard European style plates: white with the blue vertical stripe however their commercial vehicles use yellow license plates. I view the Danish language as a mixture between the other Nordic languages with a bit of a Dutch and German feel to it. Most marked roads in Denmark will have small dashes along the sides. A close-up view of Denmark’s most common roads markings. There are other road markings in Denmark and these all tend to be rarer and consist of various white lines. In the above example, the road consists of very long, side dashes with a tiny gap. They are a unique looking bollard and occur abundantly throughout the country. This is what the back of Denmark’s bollards look like. Note that the orange fluorescent stripe at the top of the bollard (both front and back) only occurs sometimes. Danish directional signs have a unique blend of white background and red writing. If you see this colour scheme, you are in Denmark. These low red and white directional signs are a key giveaway that you are in Denmark. They are also useful for pinpointing. Danish directional signs are often blue and white and in the same style as the red and white directional signs. In Denmark, warning signs are a triangle with a thick red outline and white colouring. This is the same as most of Europe and Norway but contrasts Sweden, Finland and Iceland which have yellow colouring. Give-way and speed limit signs are also white and red in Denmark. Denmark’s landscape is very flat. It has less vegetation that Norway, Sweden and Finland and has drier foliage and grass. There tend to be more fields in Denmark than the aforementioned places and a different type of vegetation that is less birch tree and more bushy trees and bushes. There also tends to be less vegetation in Denmark. Houses in Denmark are typically painted light colours. They also have steep roofs with new-looking tiles. Although Danish houses can have visible brick, visible brick houses are much more common in Belgium, the Netherlands and France. Danish street names tend to have the suffixes ‘…vej’ and ‘…gade’. Denmark have these unique metal poles that hold up many of their circular signs. The poles curve around the top of the circular signs. Commercial vehicles in Denmark have yellow license plates. Regular Danish vehicles have the standard European plates that are white with the blue, European stripe on the left. This is a Danish guardrail. It is a B-profile guardrail which consists of 90-degree angles and a narrow central section. In Europe, this type of guardrail is only found in Denmark, Croatia, Serbia and Poland. It is also found in some parts of Turkey, North Macedonia, Ireland and Germany. Examples of Danish language. I think of Danish as a mixture of the other Nordic languages with a tiny bit of Dutch and German influence. The ø symbol occurs in Danish as well as Norwegian. 

Standard plates are long and white, with a blue strip on the left. Commercial plates are yellow. And so-called “Parrot” plates have a yellow section on the left hand side. These are unique to Denmark.

The Netherlands, Luxembourg and the UK use yellow plates for private vehicles.

Denmark is a generally flat country with wide, open fields between towns. Suburban areas are usually open, with space between buildings. Urban cores are more dense and built up.

Denmark has all-white road lines. Double middle lines are very common.

Some other European countries, most notably Poland and Greece, can have double middle lines.

Outer road lines often consist of small white squares. These unique-looking lines are a good way to identify Denmark.

Denmark has very unique-looking direction signs that are very useful to recognize the country. They are low to the ground and framed by pipes. They are either coloured red and white or blue and white, with a directional arrow incorporated into the background. Signs often feature road numbers.

Some larger road signs have a more standard layout without the pipe frame. Highway signs have blue or green backgrounds.

Most Danish street names end in “vej.” This is the Danish word for “street.” Street signs most commonly have a blue background with white text.

Denmark has a very recognizable white bollard with a yellow reflector and a dark orange stripe. This bollard is unique to the country. You may also find this green variant.

Belgium has bollards that may look somewhat similar. However, it will never feature the orange stripe.

Danish is a North Germanic language that is closely related to Swedish and Norwegian. The Danish alphabet contains these special letters: Æ, Ø, and Å.

The special letters found in Danish can also be found in some of the other Northern Germanic languages:

Norwegian uses Æ, Ø, and Å.

Faroese uses Æ and Ø but not Å. 

Icelandic only uses Æ.

Swedish only uses Å. In addition, Swedish uses Ä and Ö, which are not found in Danish.

Much of the architecture in Denmark consists of red brick. Roofs often have orange, dark brown or black tiles.

Similar brick architecture is also common in the Netherlands and Belgium.

Some houses in Denmark have thatched roofs, especially in rural areas.

You can also sometimes find grey corrugated roofs. These look somewhat similar to roofs commonly found in Baltic countries.

Some older or rural buildings have timber frame walls.

Timber framing can be found in other Western and Central European countries as well, but are an especially common wall type for historical buildings in Denmark.

This signpost, where the pipe frame is bent around the sign, is unique to Denmark.

Denmark has square (normal B-type) guardrails, with no reflectors.

Denmark is one of only a very few European countries with this type of guardrail. For a good overview of European guardrails, see this infographic.

This Danish pedestrian sign has 5 stripes. Uniquely, the first and fifth stripe touch the edge of the white triangle.

Sweden’s pedestrian sign has 4 stripes. Norway almost always has 4 stripes too, but very rarely you can find signs with 5 stripes.

This unique sign is found when entering a town. When leaving, there will be a red slash through the sign.

Bus stop signs in Denmark are black and yellow. A small sign is attached to the top of the pole, with the bus schedule underneath. Additionally, you may see this older blue and white version.

This red-and-white chevron is found in Denmark. They are often low to the ground.

Standard street level utility poles are rare in Denmark. Most of the electricity infrastructure you will find in the countryside are large, towering overhead power lines, often near highways.

You may sometimes see bicycle paths on the side of the road.

Bicycle paths are also commonly seen in the Netherlands and Belgium.

The PostNord, or Post Danmark company, is the national provider of postal services in Denmark. It uses these unique postal boxes.

These four gas station brands are common to Denmark, but each are shared between one other country:

Ingo can be found in Denmark and Sweden. 

Ok can be found in Denmark and the Netherlands. 

Uno-X and Yx can be found in Denmark and Norway.

You will rarely see these stone bollards, which may be painted red at the top, near bicycle paths.

Bollard:

Denmark is very easy to figure out because of the bollards which are on almost every road.

Most of Denmark has coverage, including the island that has an arrow pointing towards it.

Road Lines:

Denmark has short shoulder lines. These are a common type of line on the sides of most major roads.

Road Signs:

Denmark has white signs with red text that point to local towns

Denmark has street names ending with “-vej”, which means road.

Denmark has a weird squared guardrail. Its similar to the traditional guardrail, but it seems like its been smooshed in.

Electricity poles:

Denmark does not have a lot of smaller poles. Most of the poles you find will be the very large ones found near highways.
