The Dominican Republic has coverage just around Santo Domingo and Santiago de Los Caballeros. The Dominican Republic has many peach coloured buildings. The Spanish language is spoken and the license plates are typically only on the rears of vehicles and consist of a yellow top half and white bottom half. The word ‘PARE’ is written on their stop signs. This contrasts Mexico and Guatemala which use the word ‘ALTO’ on their stop signs. Street View coverage in the Dominican Republic is largely limited to Santo Domingo and Santiago De Los Caballeros. The Dominican Republic is the only place in the world (other than parts of Mongolia) to have these thick black lines running along the Street View car’s bars. As well as the bars, the white front of the Street View car is visible if you pan down in the Dominican Republic. The Dominican Republic car is unique as it is particularly long. Many cars in the Dominican Republic lack front license plates. License plates in the Dominican Republic have a yellow top half and white bottom half. These distinctive, green street signs with a white border and white lettering are common throughout the Dominican Republic. Buildings in the Dominican Republic are rarely white and often a range of colours. The peach colour pictured appears commonly on buildings throughout the country. The easiest way for me to tell if I’m in Santo Domingo or Santiago De Los Caballeros is to find a clear road or space that allows me to see to the north. Santiago De Los Caballeros has mountains to the north (as pictured) whilst Santo Domingo doesn’t. Santo Domingo has more of a city feel with generally more cars and higher buildings. In contrast, Santiago De Los Caballeros feels like more of a town, with less cars and smaller buildings. Santo Domingo (the busier city) is pictured above. One of the easiest ways to tell if you are in Santo Domingo or Santiago De Los Caballeros is via the utility poles. In Santo Domingo you should more commonly see a yellow base on utility poles. In Santiago De Los Caballeros you should mainly see a gray base on utility poles and will only rarely see poles with a yellow base. Square utility poles are also common in the Dominican Republic. 

This unique car was used for all street view coverage in the Dominican Republic. It can be recognized by the two metal bars, the thick black stripes on them, as well as the white hood visible at the front.

These stripes can also be found on one of the Mongolian cars, but the landscape should allow you to tell them apart.

Within the Americas, you will also see metal bars in Guatemala and Curaçao. However, they will not have thick black stripes.

Most electricity poles are square and concrete, with a reverse “L” shape at the top. Less commonly, round or octagonal poles are used.

Within the Americas, only the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and Uruguay use square poles.

DR licence plates are somewhat reminiscent of New Jersey plates, being pale yellow at the top and white at the bottom.

The Dominican Republic is the only part of Latin America, apart from Puerto Rico, where front plates are not required.

Roads in the Dominican Republic are often made of this smooth asphalt, which has a noticeably darker colour than in other countries.

Despite being located in Central America, stop signs in DR contain the South American “PARE”. Moreover, many signs are attached to yellow signposts.

