Greater Quito is covered as well as all of Guayaquil. Many other Ecuadorian towns and cities are also covered as well as the roads connecting these areas. The coverage in the south and east of Ecuador is self-contained. Ecuador is green in vegetation and appears similar physically to Colombia. There are rolling hills and mountains across most of the country with mountains typically being visible in the background when you are some distance from them. Ecuador has two arrows indicating that you are travelling around a corner, simultaneously held up by one pole. These yellow and black signs are particularly common in Ecuador thanks to the country’s winding roads. Ecuador has the same style as the USA interstate shield for their major highways. Ecuador has the Street View car’s stubby antenna visible. Brazil, Colombia and Mexico may also have this aerial however it is most common and ubiquitous in Ecuador and Colombia. The four Latin American countries stand out for having a single diagonal string-like protrusion wrapping around the stubby antenna. Countries with a stubby antenna outside of Latin America have a different looking stubby antenna without the single diagonal string like protrusion. The entire country of Ecuador is mountainous or at the least, hilly. The Andes is covered in dense, green, vegetation. The bulk of Ecuador features thick, green foliage. Winding roads are common too. Ecuador can look vastly different away from the Andes with a drier landscape. Ecuador has a number of different shaped bollards. The type pictured is the most common. Almost all Ecuadorian bollards retain the same feature of having two red sections- one above the other. One type of Ecuadorian bollard just retains a single red stripe of the first bollard that was pictured. Ecuadorian taxis and buses have these license plates featuring an orange stripe on top and blue sections against the backdrop of the white plate. Private vehicles have regular, white license plates. Distinctive looking and unique orange license plates appear on some vehicles in Ecuador. Ecuadorian taxis sometimes have blurred out areas on their side. Unlike Peru, Bolivia and Colombia, these occasional blurred out sections don’t reveal the name of the city nor do they display the license plate. Ecuador have one pole holding two signs indicating to cars that they are on a corner. These are particularly common thanks to the twisting Ecuadorian roads. Ecuador has unique looking, double guard rails that feature one guard rail on top of another guard rail. Some Ecuadorian towns have narrow roads comprising individual tiles that tessellate. Ecuadorian houses come in a high range of styles. They can also have any roof style from tiles to corrugated iron to vines. Ecuadorian houses are most commonly built with gray coloured bricks. This contrasts most other South American houses which are mainly built using red brick. Ecuadorian utility poles come in many styles. One of the more common pole types is a cylindrical-like pole that is narrower near the top. Ecuador uses similar highway shields to the US interstate shields. The Galapagos Islands has a small amount of trekker coverage. Sometimes you will see Galapagos tortoises. 

The standard licence plates are white and can be short or long. In street view, you will often see a mix of both sizes.

Commercial vehicles, such as taxis or buses, can have older solid orange plates, or newer ones with an orange bar at the top. 

Ecuador is the only country in Latin America to use a mix of short and long licence plates.

Ecuador is one of the few Latin American countries where bollards are very common.

You will find two main types of bollards: 

A round bollard with two red stripes,

A flat bollard with two red reflectors on black.

Many other bollards can be found, however, they will almost always have the same colour scheme and style.

A similar rectangular bollard can sometimes be found in Malaysia.

Most poles in Ecuador are round and made of concrete. These poles are fairly generic and not all that useful to identify the country.

However, sometimes you will see another, more useful type of concrete pole: the ladder pole. It has a lot of small indents – resembling the steps of a ladder. Within Latin America, these poles are more or less unique to Ecuador.

Brazilian waffle poles also have indents, but only a couple – as opposed to the large amount of indents that Ecuadorian ladder poles have.

Concrete roads are relatively common in Ecuador.

Double guardrails are very commonly used. This is much less common in other South American countries.

Ecuador often uses a lot of chevrons in road curves (“chevron spam”), usually considerably more than most other Latin American countries.

Colombia also occasionally uses a lot of chevrons in curves.

Ecuador uses a lot of square road signs with a white background, of the design shown in the image.

Kilometre markers are green and have the distinctive Ecuadorian highway shields on them.

Sometimes, the back of the signs are painted a teal blue colour. The signposts are thin and made of metal.

Ecuador is the only country in Latin America to use teal blue sign backs.

Most houses are made of grey bricks and have metal roofs.

This is not unique to Ecuador, but is very common. Countries such as Peru, and especially Bolivia, commonly use red bricks.

In urban areas, you can sometimes find this pavement consisting of hexagonal tiles.

Bollard:

The most common small round bollard with 2 red rings:

Other types of bollards, which are also common:

Road Lines:

Ecuador uses the yellow centreline, also small shoulders are very representative of Ecuadorian roads:

Concrete roads are also common in Ecuador, as well as the double guardrail:

Weird double discontinuous line can also be found:

Road Signs:

Ecuador has green road signs with white text on them:

Highway sign:

Other variations: Ecuadorian Road Sign Variations
Ecuador uses American yellow diamond-shaped warning signs:

The backs of signs are quite plain, unlike Colombia which has a cross on them:

These yellow arrows are very common on curves, and they have 1 pole holding both plates, unlike in Colombia and Mexico which have 2:

The stop signs in Ecuador say PARE, which is the same for all South American and Carribean countries:

Road numbering system:

Ecuador has national and provincial highways. The road numbers on the national highways increase from north to south and from east to west. There are primary and secondary national highways. All primary national highways are 2-digit and ending with 0 or 5 depending on whether they are going in an east-west direction or a north-south direction respectively. Their numbers go from E10 to E50. Secondary national highways occupy the other numbers in-between if they are 2-digit, and go from E18 to E69. 3-digit secondary highways’ first 2 digits represent the 2-digit secondary highway they feed into, so E582, for example, feeds into E58, etc. This means that all the road numbers are pretty grouped within different areas in Ecuador, and usually easy to find. More info about the Ecuadorian road numbering system: Ecuador Road Numbering System

Right click on the image, “View Image” for higher resolution.
The only 1-digit national highway, E5, is on the Galapagos Islands, but isn’t relevant to the game.
Primary national highways have blue highway shields.

Electricity Poles:

Common Ecuadorian poles have these indentations or steps on them that are akin to the French poles’. They are less long than the ones on the Brazilian poles, and can thus be differentiated from them.

The poles can also be coloured sometimes on the bottom part.

