It mainly includes small parts of small towns (and on the water) along the south, south-east and south-west of the country. Although Greenland is an autonomous territory, it belongs to Denmark. Greenland has a distinctive, cold and rocky feel. It mainly includes a handful of towns and the waterways near a few towns. Colourful houses are a feature of Greenland and an easy way to identify it. This includes side view mirrors, boats, motorcyclist and cars with bars. Greenland’s landscape is cold, rocky and undulating. These are mainly towns and the nearby waters. Greenland tends to have a range of colourfully painted houses.

The coverage in Greenland is divided into well over fifty small disjoint parts, with different weather conditions, seasons, landmarks and so on. Although the largest concentration is found on the southern half of the west coast, coverage can be found scattered along a lot of the coast.

Greenlandic architecture mainly consists of small, colourful, simple looking wooden houses, which even in cities are typically placed quite sparsely. The major cities have some larger buildings, which normally look fairly minimalistic.

The Greenlandic landscape is very barren, with no trees or taller vegetation. A large number of mountains and hills is common, with no flat areas. Snow can also be seen in varying quantities.

Road Lines:

There are not always road lines, and that can be seen in this first picture. You can see what would represent the middle lines.

Where there are road lines, it appears that everything is white. That includes the center divider, which makes it one of the only countries in the western hemisphere to not contain a yellow divider (Most of Chile being the other).

Road Signs:

For some reason, stop signs don’t exist in Greenland. You will instead find Yield signs everywhere.

Electricity poles:

There are two styles of poles, both are found pretty much everywhere, even remote towns.

License plates:

License plates here can be either or, but mostly the long plates. They have been the same style for over 30 years.

