One of the easiest ways to recognise the country is via their unique looking letters that shouldn’t be confused with Cyrillic. Σ, Π and Λ are three of the more common Greek letters. Another recognisable feature of Greece is their large bins, they are all over the country and provide location information on them. Greece also has white, double centre road lines on many of their roads- a rarity across the rest of Europe. Greece also uses the warning signs that are triangular with a thick red outline and yellow centre. Within Europe, only Finland, Sweden, Iceland, and North Macedonia use the same signs whilst Poland uses a variant with a thin red edge. The Greek landscape is also fairly unique. The entire country is mountainous and hilly yet it also has a Mediterranean feel. There are olive trees across large parts of the country, there are few other trees, the landscape is often dry and most of the flora is quite low and sometimes there is sand alongside the roads. Finally, Greek houses are normally white or some other light colour. Greek roofs share the same terracotta shade. Greek has these warning signs featuring a thick red outline and yellow colouring. In Europe, only Finland, Sweden, Iceland, and North Macedonia have the same looking warning signs. Poland has similar looking signs with a thinner red border There are unique looking bins in Greece. They contain location information on them which can prove most useful on the Greek islands. Many Greek roads feature a double white line in the centre. This is rare in Europe. Greece mainly has the typical European plates with the blue stripe on the left but is also features a portion of narrow license plates that are just white. There is sand along the sides of the road in some parts of Greece. Olive trees are everywhere in Greece. Virtually the whole country is hilly or mountainous. Much of Greece looks bright and there is often a blue sky visible. There are many bushes is Greece and low flora and few tall trees. Greek houses are usually white or light coloured. They typically all share the same shade of terracotta as their roof colour. Like Albania, Greece has some water heaters on the roofs of their houses. Greek signs feature letters from the Greek alphabet written on top of the equivalent Latin letters. These blue and white directional signs are common throughout Greece. The Greek language is fairly well known because of the Greek alphabet. It is important not to confuse the letters with Cyrillic which can look similar. Bollards are fairly rare in Greece. The front of Greek bollards have a thick red rectangle. This is what the back of Greek bollards look like. Utility poles in Greece are typically circular and wooden. Greek utility poles stand out from the rest of the world as they are generally very tall; almost comically so. The capital letters in the Greek Alphabet. Σ, Π and Λ are three of the more common non-Latin letters.

Greek licence plates are either all white or have the standard European design, with a blue strip on the left side.

The Greek language features a unique alphabet not used in any other language. It shares similarities with both the latin and cyrillic alphabet, however the lower case letters generally have softer shapes than the cyrillic letters.

Greek utility poles are primarily wooden, and often have a distinctly dark brown colour. They will often be noticeably taller than in other countries.

These distinctive poletops, which have a metal frame shaped vaguely like a harp, are unique to Greece.

Many poles in Greece will have five vertical insulators. They can either be attached to the pole or the metal frames from the previous tip.

This type of small lamp, attached to the side of poles with a round shade above the light bulb.


In Greece you will commonly see slightly faded, solid white double middle lines. This can be used to distinguish it from most other Mediterranean countries.

Yellow road lines are more common in Greece than any other southern European country.

Greek bollards are wedge-shaped with almost square reflectors, being red on the front and white on the back.

Greek chevrons have white arrows on a black background.

Similar chevrons are found in Albania, Italy and the UK. Spain has the same colours, but will almost always have either two or four arrows.

Greek warning signs have a red border and a yellow background.

Greek directional signs are typically blue and arrow shaped. One of the most recognisable features are the place names, which are written in Greek with a yellow font, and in English with a white font.

Greek town entry signs are white with thick horizontal blue stripes at the top and bottom.

Greek kilometre markers are blue, having “km” written on the left with both the latin and greek alphabet.

Pedestrian signs have two dotted horizontal lines, rather than vertical stripes.

These types of miniature churches, put on small pedestals, are often found along Greek roads and are unique to Greece.

Greek architecture shares a lot of features with other Mediterranean countries: a lot of white and pastel-coloured stone houses with orange tiled roofs. White houses are very common when compared to most other Mediterranean countries.

Urban residential buildings will generally be multi-floored, light-coloured and typically have connected balconies along one or multiple walls.

Perhaps the most recognisable style of Greek architecture are the white houses with blue fences, window frames and doors. Beware that these are mainly found on islands.

Greece is a very mountainous country, with a large portion of the coverage being taken on winding mountain roads.

Red dirt is very common in Greece, but can also be found in Albania.


Bollard:

Greece uses black and white bollards with a red square in the black on one side and white on the reverse.

Each city in Greece has its own color for the taxis. The only thing that will remain as a constant is that the license plate of the taxis are yellow with black text. Each taxi will have a sign on top indicating that it is a taxi.


Greece uses white road lines but often features a double central line. While the double line is not always present, its a good sign you’re in the general area of Greece / Bulgaria.

Road Signs:

Greek signs often feature the Greek alphabet and a Latin translation, the Greek being in yellow, and Latin in white.

Greek warning signs feature yellow backgrounds.

Mini Churches:

These mini churches / shrines are found frequently throughout Greece. They are all different and unique, yet you can tell their purpose. They are often built to remember people who passed away in Car accidents, or by survivors of accidents who wish to thank a Saint. These will not help you decide on a region to guess, but will help you choose Greece.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Greece is a very hilly country consisting of a lot of peninsulas and off shore islands.

Architecture:

Greek houses are often white with orange/brown slate rooves.
