Guam can often be hard to find on the map due to its small size relative to the enormity of the Pacific Ocean. It is located slightly SSW from the Northern Mariana Islands. The easiest way to find it is to locate Manila and pan directly east. The coverage also extends to a few further places including the road that hugs that southern coastal part of the island. Guam is very similar looking to the Northern Mariana Islands. Both territories share the extremely blurred car with the antenna stemming from the front-right. Guam is generally busier, has wider roads, has darker roads and is flatter than the Northern Mariana Islands. It also has green street signs rather than blue. I mainly look at the utility poles to tell the territories apart. Guam typically has large, concrete utility poles whilst the Northern Mariana Islands has smaller wooden poles. If you look at the rear-left of the Guam car (right-side on the above picture), you will see a tiny bit of a bar sticking out- this distinguishes Guam from the Northern Mariana Islands. Guam is an extension of the Northern Mariana Islands archipelago. As a result, the landscape looks remarkably similar to the Northern Mariana Islands. Guam tends to have wider roads than the Northern Mariana Islands. It is also generally flatter than the Northern Mariana Islands. Guam tends to have a higher quality road network, featuring many dark, wide roads (something the Northern Mariana Islands lack). Guam also tends to be slightly busier than the Northern Mariana Islands. Guam uses these blue highway shields that helpfully say ‘Guam’. Guam has these large octagonal, concrete utility poles- something I haven’t encountered in the Northern Mariana Islands which generally has wooden utility poles. This is the easiest way for me to tell the territories apart. Guam uses green street name signs which contrasts the Northern Mariana Islands’ blue street name signs. 

Guam is a United States overseas territory. As such, it is counted as the US for country streaks purposes.

The entire Google car is blurred, however an antenna at the front right and a tiny part of the roof rack can be seen.

Poles on Guam are almost always concrete and commonly very thick.

Northern Mariana Islands typically have wooden poles.

Guam uses green street signs, unlike the Northern Mariana Islands, which use blue street signs.

Guam has a tropical climate with a lot of dense and somewhat low vegetation.

Both Guam and Northern Mariana Islands often have a very large number of road reflectors.

East Asian languages such as Japanese, Chinese, Korean, and even Russian are common to see in Guam.

This is also the case in Northern Mariana Islands.