Jersey is the southernmost of the major Channel Islands. Jersey has many similarities to the UK however there are some key differences that help distinguish it. Road lines in Jersey often feature yellow continuous edge lines with a white, dashed centre line (minor roads will just have the white, dashed centre line). This combination of road markings is rare in Europe. License plates in Jersey lack the blue stripe of Europe. Front plates are all white (with occasionally a tiny dash of red on the left) whilst rear plates appear all yellow (sometimes with a white stripe on the left). Jersey has an abundance of French town and street names. In Jersey, you will often see a yellow line that covers the road at intersections. This is a great way to distinguish Jersey from the remainder of the UK. Jersey has a real abundance of narrow, winding roads. There are often bushes and stone fences lining the roads. Jersey has a flat landscape that often features grass fields beyond the road hedges. Jersey has English and French as official languages. The majority of town and street names are in French and general signs mainly appear in English. These directional signs provide useful information for pinpointing in Jersey. ‘A’ roads are the major roads in Jersey although these roads are often small and narrow. Front license plates in Jersey most commonly appear elongated and completely white. You may sometimes notice a slight touch of red on the left side of the plate but this is nothing like the distinctive red on the left side of Isle of Man plates. The most common rear license plates in Jersey feature either an all yellow, elongated plate or a yellow, elongated plate with a white stripe on the left. You will seldom see the blue stripe of Europe on Jersey plates. This is a good way to distinguish Jersey from the UK.

Jersey is a self-governing island territory in the Channel Islands, located off France’s northwestern coast. It is a British Crown Dependency, so for country streaks purposes it is counted as part of the United Kingdom.

The island is shaped by a unique mix of British and Norman influences. The many winding roads and hedgerows are reminiscent of English country lanes, with tree-covered roads being particularly common.

Jersey licence plates follow the British model, having a long white front and yellow rear plate. In addition, you will notice the island’s red coat of arms on the left, as well as the letter ‘J’ at the beginning of all codes in unblurred plates.

In contrast to the British mainland, Jersey was never a member of the European Union. This means that local plates do not have a blue strip.

Due to its proximity to France, the vast majority of street and locality names contain French words. The island’s traditional language, known as Jèrriais, is closely related to French and appears on some signs.

The local architecture shares many characteristics with that of northern France. This includes pastel-coloured walls and dark slate roofs, however, British-style terraced houses are also common.

Jersey is home to large reserves of red granite and as a result red granite is a popular building material used for the construction of many walls and houses throughout the island.

In contrast to the iconic red booths found on the mainland of the UK, telephone booths in Jersey are uniquely yellow.

Trees:
Cornish palms (Cordyline australis) can be identified by their distinctive thin trunks and arching leaves. They are commonly used as decorative plants on Jersey.

These palms can also be found on some stretches of the British mainland’s coastline.

Jersey uses yellow give-way lines at intersections.

In contrast, the UK typically uses double dotted white lines for this purpose.

Jersey has an extensive network of cycling routes. Most notably, you will find signs referencing the start or end of a “Green Lane”. Blue route markers, containing a map of the island in the centre, are also common.

Some road signs are asymmetrically attached to their signposts, which appears to be more prevalent on Jersey than on the British mainland.
