Much of the Kenyan landscape consists of a distinctive reddish dirt like Uganda. There are however large parts of Kenya that don’t have this dirt and rather have a more subtle brown dirt colour. Kenyan roads often have white, continuous edge lines and some form of yellow centre line. Kenyan roads are on average wider than Ugandan roads. Kenya shares the same looking license plates as Uganda - typically a squarish, yellow, rear plate and elongated white plate. Kenya also has a number of black and white striped poles that hold up signs. The Kenyan landscape can be quite varied. Some parts of the country are quite hilly. The foliage in Kenya can range from dense and tropical to empty grasslands. The further west and south you travel in Kenya, the more green the vegetation becomes. The one caveat to this is that the Kenyan coastal vegetation in the far-east is also green. The further north and east you travel in Kenya, the drier the landscape. Once again, the exception is the Kenyan coastal region which is green and lush. The northern parts of Kenya are desert. If you notice palm trees in Kenya, then you are probably in or around Mombasa. The urban parts of Kenya regularly have people on the street or the footpath. Kenyan shops will often have their address displayed on them. Kenyan roads often have white continuous lines on the edges and soft yellow lines in the middle. This central line can be continuous or comprising of dashes. Many rear license plates in Kenya are yellow. Kenyan plates also tend to be squarer than other yellow licence plates around the world (excluding Uganda). Kenyan front license plates are white. Kenya has the same combination of plates as Uganda. Some Kenyan signs are held up by black and white striped poles. Kenya mainly uses the fairly generic cylindrical, wooden utility poles.

Kenya uses long white front licence plates. The rear counterpart is square and yellow.

This mobile network brand named Safaricom is unique to Kenya, and almost every city has one location.

Kenya will always have solid white outer road lines, with a dashed or solid yellow inner line.

Directional signs are green with a white border and text. They often display road numbers in white or yellow.

While infrequent, road signs in Kenya will mostly be red and white.

Upon closer inspection of signs, billboards and posters, you will notice that the county name is often written. Therefore, knowledge of Kenyan counties can be extremely useful in region guessing.

Many species of eucalyptus are commonly found in Kenya. They can be identified by their long, often clumped leaves, and smooth bark.

Eucalyptus trees can be found in other countries.


Vegetation/Landscape:

You can find a lot of palm trees in the south of Kenya near the coast.

Architecture:

Kenya uses a lot of metal for their roofs. A lot of them are rusty and stand out from a distance.

You can find a lot of plaster / brick looking buildings around. They look like a style used in the old west USA.

General look:

You can see the palm trees and  sandy soil on the sides of the road in the Mombassa region of Kenya.

There is a lake in the Western area of Kenya, and it feels pretty hilly.

