Urban Nigeria stands out for the hordes of cars and people around. The Nigerian landscape can be rather diverse, ranging from tropical in the south to brownish-red soil and less vegetation further north. Nigerian utility poles have a number of large indents on them. There is often wall to wall traffic and a number of people walking around. The further south you are located in Nigeria, the greener and more tropical-looking the landscape. As you travel further north in Nigeria, the landscape becomes much drier, less green and more of a brown colour. This is especially true the closer you get to Abuja. Nigeria can have a slight reddish soil but it is much rarer than in Kenya and Uganda. Nigerian towns and outer suburbs often have light coloured, sandy, dirt roads. Roadside curbs in Nigeria sometimes have this pattern of alternating white and dark blue/black. Nigeria’s most common utility poles often have a number of indents, like sections have been cut out but not quite enough has been cut out to form holes. Nigerian utility poles look similar to Brazilian utility poles. You can often see complete addresses on signs.


Unique Vehicle:

Nigerian Taxi’s look like the other ones in Central Africa, but there is no pattern on the side like Uganda or Kenya.

You can also find rickshaw’s nearly everywhere in major cities.

Unique Taxi Color’s:

You can tell which city you’re in based on the colors and patterns of the taxi. They are generally unique in the coverage here.

Lagos uses a yellow car with two black stripes on the sides. The black stripes tend to be closer towards the windows here, unlike, Enugu.

Abuja uses a Green taxi that sometimes will have white stripes along the sides. Most of the time, however, they do not have a stripe.

Asaba uses a Blue and white taxi. There is no coverage of the town, but you do pass through the area and can see the taxis while nearby.

Enugu uses a yellow car with two black stripes. The stripes appear to be lower than in Lagos, and are closer to the wheel wells than other places.

Ibadan uses a Burnt red / brown and yellow taxi. The bottom half is the burnt red / brown while the top half is yellow.

Road Lines:

Nigeria mostly uses all white road lines, sometimes with a solid divider and sometimes with a dashed divider.

There is also a chance to find yellow shoulders, although it is definitely rare.

Road Signs:

These arrow like signs are unique and can only be found in Abuja.

While these are not signs, some of their concrete dividers are painted Green and White like their flag. This is not all of the concrete barriers however.


Abuja uses an arrow that has a border around it. While other arrows have been seen, they are not as common as the ones found in Abjua (See Benin City).

Ibadan uses a squared sign, often near the bottom of the ground. If you do find a street sign on a post, it will be a red rectangle with some white letters.

In Benin City you can find some arrows like the ones in Abuja, but they mostly appear to be rusted. You can also find some rectangular signs, also super rusty or with some darkish brown/black color to them. There are lighter options of these signs as well, including Yellow, Green, White and Blue.

The Lagos Area has a few different versions, with the city of Lagos containing nearly every color.

Epe and Ikorodu use a Black sign with white lettering.

Eputu Town, Ebute Leki and Aiyeteju (and a little town east of Aiyeteju) use a Green sign with white text.

Lekki, Ikoyi and Victoria Island uses a red sign with white text.

Lagos Island uses a greenish black sign with yellow text. This also extends to Ajegunle.

Badagry and Magbon use a blue sign with white text.

The Town east of Morogbo, Ikeji, Oba Akran, Idi Mangoro, Magbon (The Suburb of Lagos, not the town itself), Volkswagen and Ojo use a Green Sign with White text. There are no maps here as the suburbs are not all near each other. Just know that you can find the suburbs if you zoom in on the map while looking.

Festac Town, Yaba, Olowora, Ikosi Ketu, Ketu and Satellite Town use the red sign with the white text.

Ijora, Badia and Ajegunle-Ifelodun use a black sign with Yellow lettering.

Orile-Iganmu, Itare, Ikate, Iganmu, Ijegun, Ikotun, Alimosho, Idimu, Ayobo, Ipaja, Alagbado, Alakuko, Egbeda, Shasha, Iyana and Idi Araba use a Blue sign white White text.

Somolu and Akoka, Ojokoro, Ifako-Ijaiye and Aguda use a black sign with white text.

Electricity poles:

You can find “broken” poles quite frequently in Nigeria.


Vegetation/Landscape:

Nigeria is generally flat, however you can find hills around the Abuja area.

Architecture:

Nigeria has a lot of gas stations, especially in Ibadan.

General Look:

This is the north of the country. Its rather dry and open. You can also find some hills around the Abuja area.

The middle of the country has this damper feel

The South of the country is generally more tropical. It tends to have palm trees and other tropical foliage.

