You will typically see well-maintained roads in North Macedonia and not rural villages or minor roads. North Macedonian warning signs contain a thick red outline and yellow filling. Within Europe, only Iceland, Sweden, Finland and Greece have the same warning signs whilst Poland has similar signs with a thinner red border. North Macedonia also has a relatively equal mixture of standard European looking license plates and white, elongated plates without the blue European stripe. These latter plates are rare in Europe. North Macedonia uses both the Cyrillic and Latin writing systems. On signs, there are often Cyrillic town name on top and the Latin translation beneath. If you see Cyrillic and the letters Ќ, Ѓ or Ѕ, you are in North Macedonia. Virtually the entire North Macedonia is hilly. The foliage is green in North Macedonia and some semblance of dirt is often visible. North Macedonian bollards have the common design featuring a red rectangle within a black strip. Hungary, Bulgaria and Croatia have the same bollards whilst Serbia can have similar bollards with the red rectangle to one side. The rear of North Macedonian bollards has the white rectangle within the black section. This is the same rear as the countries in the image above this one. Houses in North Macedonia mainly have terracotta tiled roofs and multiple chimneys. They are often two-storey and occasionally you will see houses with a curved front element. North Macedonia has a mix of concrete and wooden utility poles. They are both cylindrical in shape. Some utility poles will have a street light hanging off of them. North Macedonian directional signs are yellow with black lettering. Many small, North Macedonian signs have a black rear. Large signs in North Macedonia have a corrugated rear. There are large, dark blotches on the imagery in the far eastern part of North Macedonia as well as the area around the eastern North Macedonian city of Kochani. .

North Macedonian licence plates are white and sometimes have the standard European blue strip on the left. They also have a noticeable red block near the left side of the licence plate.

Serbia will almost always have a blue strip on their licence plates.

North Macedonia uses two types of bollards. One is rounded and very thin, while the other one is wedge-shaped. They both are white and have red or white reflectors on a black surface.

Croatia uses the same wedge-shaped bollard. Hungary has a similar wedge-shaped bollard but with more white space above the black rectangle.

North Macedonia uses A-Profile guardrails, like most of Europe. The guardrails have red reflectors.

Serbia uses B-Profile guardrails. For a good overview of European guardrails, see this infographic.

Direction signs in North Macedonia are typically yellow with biscriptal text: town names are written in both Latin and Cyrillic script.

Serbia, Slovenia, Croatia, and Montenegro have similar signs. Serbia is the only one that will have biscriptal text though.

Macedonian is a Slavic language which uses the Cyrillic script. Road signs have Latin on them too, although most other signs are fully in Cyrillic.

The letters ‘Ѓ’ and ‘Ќ’ are unique to Macedonian. ‘Љ’, ‘Њ’, and ‘Џ’ are only in Serbian and Macedonian.

The general landscape of North Macedonia consists of relatively dry grasslands, and small hills and scattered trees.

So called ‘Greek Lamps’ on utility poles can be found in North Macedonia. They can also be found in various other countries, such as Greece or Serbia.

North Macedonia normally uses yellow-filled in warning signs while most of Europe uses white ones.

In southeastern Europe, Greece also commonly uses yellow-filled in signs and Slovenia sometimes has yellow-filled signs.