License plates with a slightly green tingle also help to confirm the country. There are an abundance of English words in the Philippines; often visible on business signs. A further sign that you are in the Philippines lies quite literally in front of you: the roads. Many Filipino roads are composed of large concrete rectangular blocks. Some other south-east Asian countries also have this concrete-block feature, namely Thailand but normally to a lesser extent. These concrete blocks make up the majority of Filipino roads. Road lines come in many forms in the Philippines and aren’t overly useful in narrowing down the country. The Philippines, stands out as it is one of only three countries to drive on the right in south-east Asia, the other two being Laos and Cambodia. The Filipino landscape is tropical with undulating terrain common as well as narrow, winding roads. Houses often line the roads in the Philippines, stretching into rural areas. Bright coloured rickshaws and bright coloured miniature buses are also a common fixture. Large concrete, rectangular blocks that make up the road comprise the majority of the roads in the Philippines. This feature can also be seen in Thailand fairly frequently and in a few other locations. The Philippines has various versions of license plates with green on white. The Philippines is one of only a few countries in the world to have these white chevron signs with red arrows. It also has a glut of political signs around the country. Drivers drive on the right in the Philippines which distinguishes it from Indonesia and Malaysia. The Philippines is a diverse looking archipelago of islands that have a tropical feel. The Philippines has a wide range of different types of road markings. Much of the Philippines is undulating. The most common roof type in the Philippines features corrugated iron, normally in a triangular formation. The second most common roof type in the Philippines is this hand woven roof that uses something resembling reeds. Rickshaws are common throughout the Philippines. These bright, mini buses are also common in the Philippines. The Philippines uses these European style warning signs. These signs are also found in Laos and Taiwan. The most common type of utility pole in the Philippines is in this crucifix style pole, made from wood. These small bollards that are cigarette shaped, with a yellow top section, line some roads in the Philippines however they are fairly rare. The large southern island of Mindanao is where the majority of Muslims reside in the Philippines (especially in the west of this island). The rest of the country is majority Christian. Many shop signs in the Philippines provide their location. English words and signs are surprisingly almost everywhere in the Philippines, indeed, English is one of the two official languages in the country. Filipino is the other official language and this has more of an influence on Filipino place names.
