Poland has a number of distinctive features that make recognising it easier. Poland has a huge number of grass fields on both sides of the road. If I ever see a flat, European country with a grass field (and no other clues) I will guess Poland. Poland also often has a row of trees on both sides of the road. Poland also has a scattering of trees that would normally be associated with cold climates. Polish houses often have small fence around them, like some Eastern European countries. Poland is the only country in the world with their unique looking warning signs. They are triangular with yellow filling and notably a thin red outline. A handful of countries in the world have similar looking warning signs however Poland’s are different as they have the thin, red outline. Poland also stands out for its utility poles. These have large holes in them. Only Hungary and Romania have similar holes in their utility poles and Romania often has a yellow mark on their utility poles. Polish utility poles are distinct from Hungarian and Romanian poles as the holes in Polish poles don’t go all the way to the ground. Polish bollards are also unique and have a red diagonal strip wrapping around the red bollard. The Polish language is a recognisable language. It is one of only a few European languages to have a high number of ‘z’. It also has many j, w and y. Other Polish letters include: ó, ł, ż, ś, ȩ and ń. Poland is a flat country full of grass fields. If I see a European location with only a grass field to go by, Poland will be my first guess. Fields on both sides of the road and a line of trees on both sides of the road are common sights in Poland. Like some other Eastern European locations, Polish houses often have small wooden or metal fences around them. Polish flora often includes trees that are associated with relatively cold climates. Poland is the only country in the world to have triangular warning signs that have a thin red outline and yellow filling. Poland is one of three countries in Europe to commonly have these holes in their primary utility poles. The other two being Hungary and Romania. Polish poles are unique from Hungarian and Romanian poles as the Polish poles’ holes don’t go all the way to the ground like in Hungary and Romania.  France very occasionally has hole-poles and like Poland, the holes also stop before the ground. In the example above showing another variant of Polish utility poles, there are two poles converging into one. Polish bollards have a red diagonal stripe wrapping around the bollard. This is a Polish guardrail (the silver guardrail). It is a B-profile guardrail which consists of 90-degree angles and a narrow central section. In Europe, this type of guardrail is only found in Poland, Croatia, Serbia and Denmark. It is also found in some parts of Turkey, North Macedonia, Ireland and Germany. Poland has green coloured directional signs with white lettering. Polish pedestrian signs are the only ones in Europe to have just one horizontal line behind the person. The Polish cities denoted by red dots end with the letters ‘…OWO’. The Polish cities denoted by blue dots end with the letters ‘…ÓW’. This information can be useful if you are trying to work out if you are in the northern or southern half of the country. (Source: Gazeta.pl). Polish is a fairly recognisable language. The frequent letter “z’s” are a good sign you are in Poland as is the letter ł (Ł). The letters j, w and y also occur abundantly. Other letters in Polish include: ó, ż, ś, ȩ and ń. 

Poland has long white plates with the standard European blue strip on the left.

Polish bollards have a red strip that wraps all the way around the bollard. This strip has a red reflector on the front (sometimes hard to see), and a white reflector on the back. Bollards sometimes have numbers on them.

The same design can be found in Zakarpattia Oblast in Ukraine.

Poland usually has thin concrete utility poles with see-through holes. They are commonly known as “holey poles”. The holes often do not extend all the way to the bottom of the pole. 

Sometimes, two poles are joined together, or put in an A-frame shape. You can also find round concrete poles.

Hungary and Romania also have holey poles, but these are wider and more bulky. In addition, the holes extend all the way to the bottom.

Poland has all-white road lines. Double middle lines are very common and usually a good clue for Poland.

Some other European countries, most notably Denmark and Greece, can have double middle lines.

Poland has square (normal B-type) guardrails, with circular red reflectors.

Poland is one of only a very few European countries with this type of guardrail. For a good overview of European guardrails, see this infographic.

Warning signs are triangular and have a yellow background and a distinct thin red border.

In Europe, this combination of a yellow background with a thin red border is unique to Poland.

However, prohibitory signs are round and have a white background with a thicker red border.

Poland has a unique pedestrian sign. Instead of the usual zebra stripes, it just has a single horizontal line.

Austria and Belgium also have horizontal lines, but they use two lines instead of Poland’s single line.

Regular Polish direction signs have a green background. These signs use a distinct font, which is a good clue for Poland.

Signs on expressways have a blue background.

Poland has two town entry signs: a green one with the locality’s name, and a white-and-black one with a stylized urban area. 

Like direction signs, town entry signs use a distinct font.

Polish chevrons are white with red arrows.

Polish is a Slavic language. The Polish alphabet includes:

Ł with a stroke through it (unique to Polish)

Ą and Ę with a small hook (also found in Lithuanian)

Ć, Ń, Ó, Ś, Ź with an acute accent. Of these, Ń is unique to Polish. In addition, the only other language with Ś and Ź is Montenegrin.

Ż with a small dot (unique to Polish)

Polish is very consonant-heavy, with lots of consonant clusters. Polish does not use V. Instead, it uses W a lot, the only Slavic language to do so. Other unusually common consonants are the Z, K, and C.

Poland is generally a flat country, with occasional rolling hills. The country is very green, with a lot of agriculture, and some amount of forest cover.

Mountains can be found near the southern border.

Many roads in Poland are lined by rows of trees.

Neatly tiled sidewalks are very common in Poland. Tiles are often grey or light red. Occasionally, even roads have tiled pavement. Many different types of tile patterns occur, including larger square tiles.

Polish architecture is fairly similar to other Central European countries. Buildings usually have plain stone walls covered in light or pastel stucco. Frequent roofing colours are orange or red, black, and brown. Roof tiles and panes often have a tidy, almost plastic-like look. Some rural houses have corrugated sheet roofs similar to those often found in the Baltics.

Detached single family homes are common throughout Poland. They sometimes have a blocky look. 

In bigger towns, apartment buildings are common. Many date from communist times, and some of them still have a somewhat austere look. However, many have been renovated and look nice and well-kept.

Downtown areas are usually dense and often have historic buildings.

Poland is one of the most Catholic countries in Europe. You can often find Christian shrines on the side of roads. Blue-white and yellow-white Polish Catholic flags also sometimes appear.

Bollard:

Only one bollard type, the white bollard with a red stripe going all around:

Road Lines:

White centreline with white or no sideline. Double centreline appears only near junctions and with different overtaking rules for the lanes.

Road Signs:

Green signs with white text, except on highways. Highway signs are blue with white text, except when pointing towards non-highway roads. Warning signs in Poland have a yellow background, which is a feature of only a few countries in Europe, and a thin frame line. Poland has these distinctive settlement entrance and exit signs with a town outline depicted on them. The turn arrows are red with a white background. The speed limit signs have a characteristic font to them.

Large crosses by the side of the road can be found in Poland, Czechia, Slovakia and Romania and serve as a memorial to a person who lost their life there.
Similar memorials can be found in other countries around too, but usually not with crosses this large.

Road numbering system:

3-digit national roads are grouped together and their first digit zones range from 1 in the northwest to 9 in the southeast.

Electricity poles:

Poland has these characteristic slim holed poles.

License plates:

The usual European Union plates with PL written on them.

Specific tree:

The European Larch grows around Poland too, in addition to the Alps and Carpathian mountain ranges.

Architecture:

Northern Poland has specific architectural style – tall slim houses with steep roofs (with or without ornamentation):
