Qatar is a rich nation which is reflected in its buildings, roads and cars. The Qatari landscape is desert. The land is flat, the roads are wide and well-maintained and there are many tall street lights lining the streets. Qatari roads are mainly surrounded by these black and white curbs that look like they have been freshly painted. If you look carefully, Qatari plates have a narrow band of maroon on their left. The plates are long and elongated. The cars in Qatar are generally fairly expensive. Four wheel drives are commonplace. Signs in Qatar are typically written in both Arabic and English. This includes street signs, stop signs and directional signs. 

Regular cars in Qatar have long, white licence plates with a maroon strip on the left. Trucks have square, black licence plates and police plates are blue.

Qatar's landscape is predominantly desert, with arid, and mostly flat expanses of sand as far as the eye can see. You will often not see a lot of trees or other greenery.

Qatar typically uses solid outer white lines with either white or yellow in the middle. More rarely, you can also find outer yellow lines too.

Qatar uses round poles with 3 insulators on the pole top, with the middle one being slightly higher. The crossbar also has 2 diagonal bars connecting it to the pole.

Qatar uses white on red and white on blue chevrons.

Since some coverage was taken before the 2022 World Cup took place, many banners can be seen mentioning the event.

Qatari crossing signs feature a man in a thobe.

License plates:

While at the Qatar airport, you can find your way outside (Only if you are before security. They have it separated here). Once there, the plates above appear to be on some of the vehicles there. The red is hard to see, but its there.

General look:

Before you pass security, you have this weird, windowed, cylindrical check-in / baggage area. Its definitely some unique architecture.

The Airport looks like a typical airport. You can find these signs that say “Best Airport in the Middle East” on nearly every gate in the terminal. You can find the same windows in the terminal area as the front area. You can also end up in two different planes, but they do not connect to the terminal. You would need to spawn inside the plane to get there, and most map creators don’t like coverage like that.

The Main hall of the art museum is very open. They have a nice staircase near the middle of the room. There isnt much around and its difficult to get into the actual art exhibits on display.

The Museum of Islamic Art: 
Its nice to be able to look at some of the things inside. There seems to be a big emphasis on pottery here, with a lot of the display cases containing pottery and other ceramic goods.

