If I have a suspicion that I’m in Russia, I normally confirm this by looking at the license plates that are long, narrow and white. They lack the blue stripe of Europe. Ukrainian license plates have the left vertical stripe comprising light blue on top and yellow on the bottom which can only just be made out and the white Russian plates contrast this. The written language of Cyrillic is also another key indicator of Russia although there are no unique Russian Cyrillic characters to look for. Some (still a minority) of utility poles in Russia have a diagonal supporting pole. These are found right across Russia but sometimes in other countries. There are a number of bollard styles in Russia although they all contain the colours black, white and red. There are an abundance of Lada cars in Russia. These are uniquely shaped cars and old-fashioned looking. If it’s sunny, you are statistically less likely to be in northern Russia and more probably near the Black Sea. If there are more Japanese/Korean type boxy cars as opposed to European cars then you are more likely on the Eastern side of Russia. Indeed if you graph the ratio of European cars to Japanese/Korean cars you will probably find a match with the GeoGuessr location’s proximity to Europe and Japan. In Russia, many drivers in the far-east have cars that have the driver’s seat and steering wheel on the right hand side of the car. Russian roads are typically poorly maintained and full of cracks except for some major roads. Many Russian smaller roads are just gravel or dirt. Like Ukraine, Russia stands out for painting the lower trunk of some of its trees white. Russian houses in rural parts are often poor looking and wooden with triangular-prism shaped roofs. Urban Russian areas commonly have Soviet-style apartment buildings going all the way down the street; often in the same style. Large pipes going over the road are found all over Russia but these are mainly found in southern-central Russia. Like Ukraine, Russia often has black and white painted guard rails and some curbs. On Russian signs, г. followed by a word, indicates a city name c. followed by a word indicates a town name. Gravel and dirt roads are common for minor roads in Russia. Russian roads are often poorly maintained and full of cracks. The more major Russian roads are often better maintained. One of the best ways to identify Russia is via its license plates. Russian plates are elongated and completely white- a rarity in Europe. Like Ukraine, Russia often paints the lower part of their tree trunks white. Russian poles are often white with a black base. This black base is rarely seen on poles elsewhere although Kyrgyzstan sometimes has this too. This is a Russian bollard. Russian bollards often have a unique feature- a narrow support pole on one side of them. This makes them unique from Ukrainian bollards. Russian bollards are primarily found at intersections. Russia typically uses square, concrete poles. These sometimes have a short, horizontal metal bar on top. Several other countries use similar utility poles to Russia, including Ukraine. Russia has a range of house styles. One of the more common are wooden houses that have triangular-prism shaped roofs. Wooden fences are also common around Russian houses. Soviet-style apartment blocks are common in larger Russian towns and Russian cities. These large pipes that pass over roads tend to be clustered around central Russia. They can also be found in Ukraine Like in Ukraine, Russia often has their guardrails and some curbs painted in alternating black and white colours. Russian intersections are typically very wide. These are Russian kilometre poles. They tell you how far you have travelled on a highway, the other side of the sign which you have to turn around to see once you’ve passed it tells you how far you have left on the highway. Like in Ukraine, Russia has a large number of old-fashioned Lada cars. In Eastern Russia, most cars have their steering wheel on the right-hand side of the car. This contrasts western Russia (and almost all of Europe) where the steering wheels are on the left of the car. Russian directional signs are blue with white lettering. They most commonly have just the Cyrillic words. Sometimes they have both Latin and Cyrillic. The GeoGuessr map displays Russian house numbers. This can make pinpointing slightly easier. Like in Ukraine, Russian public transport has yellow license plates. This is a basic map showing the general regions of Russian phone number prefixes. A more detailed map appears below. A map showing the locations of Russian phone number prefixes. The phone number code refers to the first 3-digits found in the brackets on Russian phone numbers. Note that phone numbers beginning with ‘9’ are mobile numbers. A larger version of this map can be found here. (Many thanks to robofcourse for making this amazing map!) In the above example, the digits 863 are the first (and only in this case) digits in the brackets. 863 correlates to the area around Rostov-on-Don on the above map. In Eastern Russia you will sometimes see the white car as opposed to the more common Russian black car. Ulyanovsk Oblast in Russia (just west of the city of Samara) has these red and white bases to many of its poles.

Bollard:

Multiple types of bollards, mostly different from the Ukrainian ones. But some of them are the same type as in Ukraine, mostly the older ones. Potholes and other road deformations are quite common in Russia, maybe a bit less than in Ukraine. The curbs and guardrails can very often be painted black and white.

Road Signs:

Russia has blue road signs with white text on them. Sometimes the kilometre distances on signs can be enormously large in remote parts of the country. Russian road signs are very often painted black on the bottom. Russia has blue kilometre markers on its roads, not unlike the other ex-Soviet countries, which tell you how many kilometres of that road you have passed. The turn arrows in Russia are white with a red background, the same as in Ukraine. The settlement entrance and exit signs follow the same format as other road signs – blue with white text, unlike Ukraine which uses white signs with black text.
Russia, like Ukraine, has these large region (rayon and oblast) entrance signs stating the name of the region you are entering. Sometimes there are built up area entrance/exit signs.
The white signs in cities tell you the directions to parts of the city or streets or certain points of interest. 

Note that улица means “street” in Russian, and it is shortened as ул. In the same way, город means “city” and is shortened as г. This is useful for searching for city/street names on signs and billboards. The crosswalk signs in Russia usually have a lime reflective frame for additional visibility during the night.
The crosswalks themselves can often be yellow (or orange) and white, as in the picture.

Electricity poles:

Electricity/light poles can often be painted white at the bottom.

Light poles by the side of the road can also have black and white stripes on them at the bottom to serve as reflectors for drivers in the night.

License plates:

Regular plates are all-white with a Russian flag in the corner.

The 2 or 3-digit number above the flag signifies the region (oblast) the plates were issued in (see the region number map below).
Public transport vehicle plates are yellow.

The tractor or agricultural vehicle (1st) and motorcycle (2nd) plates are more boxy.

The region (oblast) numbers on the plates are as follows:
The numbers follow an alphabetical pattern and are grouped by the federal subject type: Republics А-Я 01-21, Krais А-Я 22-27, Oblasts А-Я 28-76, Moscow and St. Petersburg 77 and 78, the one Autonomous Oblast 79, Okrugs and Autonomous Okrugs А-Я 80-89. There are some exceptions to the pattern and those have to be learned, and some federal subjects also have multiple codes.
Sometimes buses and UAZ vans can have their license plate numbers/characters written big on their backs, which is useful as they are not blurred like the plates.
However, if you are lucky, you can find an unblurred plate, or more often a corner of a plate with the oblast number not blurred.
The Tatarstan plates are a little bit different from the rest of the country and have the region’s flag and no region number:

Vegetation/Landscape:

Trees in Russia can often be painted white at the bottom as an insect repellent or roadside reflector.

Specific tree:

Probably the most distinctive out of all the vegetation in Russia is the famous “Hokkaido cabbage”, which in Russia grows only on the island of Sakhalin in the far east of the country:

The accurate name for this plant is (giant) butterbur, or fuki in Japanese (Latin: Petasites japonicus).
Another distinctive plant/tree is the Siberian larch, which grows only in Siberia and the Far East, and not in the rest of the country.

Larch is one of the rare coniferous tree species which sheds its needles during the winter, so you can also see it with yellow or without any needles in some parts of the country.

Architecture:

A very common old rural house style, made from dark logs with colourful ornate windows.
