Kigali has rolling hills and well-maintained roads. There are tall concrete or brick fences around most properties. Vehicles drive on the right in Rwanda which distinguishes the country from the semi-similar looking Uganda and Kenya. Vehicles have yellow rear plates and white front plates in Rwanda. Most intersections have these roads names on clear signs, making it relatively easy to find where you located on the GeoGuessr map. When you pan down in Rwanda, you will see this unique-looking, black car. The paved roads in Rwanda typically feature a yellow centre line and white side lines. These lines are often faded. The paved road quality in Rwanda is fairly high. There is also a high proportion of unpaved roads in Rwanda. The paved roads in Rwanda often have these black and white sidewalk edges. Vehicles in Rwanda have yellow rear license plate and white front license plates. Note that vehicles drive on the right side of the road in Rwanda. This can help distinguish the country from Kenya and Uganda who drive on the left. High walls are common around most properties in Kigali. This is a great way to distinguish Rwanda from other African countries. This image shows an example of a typical Kigali landscape. The entire city is undulating, with roads that are seldom straight and always curved. If the road is paved, it will be smooth. There are often people around and motorbikes. There are high walls around the properties. Utility poles in Rwanda almost always come as either concrete square shaped poles like the one pictured above, or round, wooden poles. Signs in Kigali are often written in both English and Kinyarwanda. Fortunately for GeoGuessr players, pinpointing in Rwanda is relatively easy thanks to the prevalence of clear street signs at most intersections. The northern half of Kigali has street signs that begin with ‘KG’ followed by a number. The southern parts of Kigali, has street signs that being with ‘KN’ or ‘KK’. In general, the lower road numbers (1 and 2-digit road numbers) in Kigali are more major roads whilst 3-digit road numbers tend to be smaller roads. The second letter of the road name stands for the district. Roads beginning with KG stand for Kigali Gasabo. Roads beginning with KN stand for Kigali Nyarugenge. Roads beginning with KK stand for Kigali Kicukiro.

Rwanda uses long white front and yellow back licence plates.

Rwanda is generally quite hilly, but not very mountainous.

Most of the soil in Rwanda has a noticeable red tint to it.

Banana plants are common throughout Rwanda.

Rwanda uses multiple different red and white cylindrical bollards.

Streets in Rwanda are noticeably very clean and free of garbage.

Kerbs are often painted with black and white stripes.

Villa neighbourhoods often have a lot of tall security fences and walls.

Rwanda drives on the right.

All motorcyclists in Rwanda are required to wear red vests and helmets.
