Singapore has well maintained everything from trees and hedges to roads. The cars are expensive and drive on the left in Singapore. Most Singaporean roads have the distinctive black and white striped curbs. Singaporean road lines come in a range of styles. It is common to have double yellow, continuous road lines on the very edges of the road. There are a number of different license plates used in Singapore. Some of these plates are completely black, others have black sections and other vehicles have yellow rear plates and white front plates. Some vehicles in Singapore have yellow rear plates and white front plates. Singapore uses distinctive green signs with white lettering for road names and directions. They also use standard, European warning signs however the actual signs themselves are white and square-shaped with the red-outlined triangle printed on the square sign. Some highway names have three letters such as TPE, SLE and CTE.  Secondly, other highways in Singapore are commonly named after the district they are located in.
Some Singaporean traffic lights arch over the road with the lights in a horizontal orientation. Often in Singapore you will see concrete pillars holding up a large, elevated, cement pathway.
In addition, everything in Singapore looks remarkably clean and smooth. There is a lot of greenery around Singapore considering how densely populated and urban it is.
Singapore is a rich looking country that has high rise buildings, new looking roads, neatly maintained trees and bushes and fairly expensive cars. Despite being urban, the country is very green and lush. Houses in Singapore tend to be double story and expensive. Singapore has four official languages. These are: English, Chinese, Malay and Tamil. Sometimes all four of these languages appear on signs. English is the most used written language in Singapore.

All street name signs in Singapore follow unique format. They are green, with rounded edges and a distinct white font.

Directional signs are also green, with white letters and English writing.

Highways each have a three-letter code (e.g. TPE).

Road signs in Singapore are unique in that they are always set on a square white background.

Rain trees are seen all around Singapore, and are often planted along main roads.

Warnings are often written on the road in large letters, such as the famous “HUMP AHEAD”.

Moreover, all bus stops are protected by concrete bollards with unique black-and-yellow warning bands.


In addition to the concrete bollards on bus stops, Singapore sometimes has a unique and yellow bus-leaving box with an arrow on the street.

Almost all Singaporean traffic lights are supported by a curved sheet of metal containing several holes.
