Slovenia has traits of many of its surrounding countries. Most of Slovenia is a hilly and mountainous country that is largely covered by forests. There are numerous roads in the Slovenian hills that are twisting with foliage encroaching right up to the road. Even in the flatter parts of Slovenia, you may see hills or mountains somewhere in the distance. Slovenian bollards are almost identical looking to Montenegro’s bollards. The eagle-eyed may spot that Slovenian bollards tend to have a larger gap between the top of the red rectangle and the bottom of the black cap when compared to Montenegro. Serbia and Austria also often have similar looking bollards. Slovenian houses are typically light colours such as light pink or shades of white. The roofs come in two main styles- the triangle style and the straight-line arc style. The roofs are almost always brown or terracotta coloured. Slovenian houses are two-storeys high across most of the country. Most directional Slovenian signs are yellow and black coloured and most Slovenian signs in general have folded edged around the back of the sign. Slovenian utility poles come in many shapes and sizes but the most common types are rudimentary shaped akin to a cylinder. There are also many stand-alone street lights in Slovenia. Finally, the Slovenian language has a large number of the letter ‘j’. It also has three letters with the small ‘v’ over them- ž, š and č. Winding road in the hills of Europe with thick foliage very close to the road is common view in Slovenia. Forests are a common sight amongst the twisting roads of the Slovenian hills. The Slovenian landscape often features hills or mountains in the background. Much of the country is covered by forest. Slovenian houses are typically fairly close to white (often a very light pink) in colour. They often have pronounced, triangular roofs. Roofs are commonly brown or terracotta coloured. A terracotta colour is a popular roof colour in Slovenia as is brown. There are a high number of two-storey houses across Slovenia. Yellow and black coloured signs are used for several purposes across Slovenia, including indicating the direction of towns. These look similar to the Croatian signs. A high percentage (the majority) of Slovenian signs have a yellow sticker on the back of them. The sticker is sometimes white. Slovenian utility poles come in many forms. This plain looking pole is one of the more common Slovenian utility poles. Most Slovenian towns and cities have a large number of stand-alone street lights. This is a Slovenian kilometre marker which also houses information about the road number- in this case road number 439. Slovenia tends to have a majority of standard European license plates featuring the blue stripe on the left. It does however have a reasonable portion (around a quarter) or completely white license plates. These whit plates are rather rare in Europe with Switzerland and Croatia being the most geographically similar countries to have them. The Slovenian language stands out to me as it has an abundance of the letter ‘j’. If you remember the capital of Slovenia is Ljubljana (containing two j’s) then this may help you remember the j and Slovenia link. Slovenian also has the three letters with the small ‘v’ over them: ž, š and č. 

The Slovenian landscape is generally very hilly and forested, with occasional agriculture.

Slovenian architecture takes much inspiration from alpine architecture, with light coloured walls, dark wooden details and semi-steep roofs. The most common roof shape is half-hipped roofs.

Slovene is a Slavic language featuring the special letters Č, Š, and Ž. It is closely related to Croatian, Serbian and Montenegrin.

On top of having the same letters as Slovene, Croatian also has the letters Ć and Đ.

Slovenian bollards are white with a black top. The front reflector will typically be bright red, while the back reflector will be white.

Slovenian directional signs are yellow with a black border. 

Croatia, North Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro all have similar directional signs. Austrian directional signs are typically white with a blue outline.

Slovenian kilometre markers have a very distinct design. At the top left the road number is shown in a yellow rectangle, and a second number is to the right of it. A horizontal black line divides the top and bottom, and the distance is shown below.

Slovenian chevrons have red arrows on a white background.

Slovenian pedestrian signs have five stripes and a simply drawn person without a belt.

Slovenian street signs are most commonly white with a metal border attached to signposts, or red and attached to house walls.

Slovenian house numbers are typically red with white text.

Slovenia uses a regular A-type guardrail, like most European countries. This guardrail type has rounded edges.


A type of shed, called a kozolec, made of thin wooden beams with noticeable gaps in between, is very typical for Slovenia.

Road Lines:

Slovenia uses all white road lines.

Road Signs:

Slovenian signs have a white outline, with folded edges on the back.

Settlement signs feature a yellow background.

Street signs are suspended.

Slovenia uses šola, which means School. This is unique.

You can find signs that have both Italian and Hungarian along side the Slovenian. These will be in regions near those borders.

Slovenia uses a traditional guardrail. It has a red reflector on the inside.

You can find the municipalities Crest on most of the town signs.

These signs are often found on the sides of roads. They will tell you what road you are on, as well as the KM along it that you are.

Electricity poles:

Slovenia uses so many different varieties of poles, it could be seen as crazy to learn them all. They have wooden, metal and concrete poles, and they all look slightly different.

License plates:

This license plate is from the region of Krško in South Eastern Slovenia. You can tell because of the first two digits, as well as the coat of arms in the middle.

Slovenia uses EU styled plates with a coat of arms 2 digits in. The first two digits can tell you where the car was registered. Cars do Travel, so be careful when using this.
Slovenia has 212 different variations of the license plate above. Each Coat of Arms
in the middle will be tied to one of the 212 municipalities in Slovenia. There are two pages in the link, make sure you remember to check the next page. This meta, while incredible, is also very difficult. Not only do you need to memorize 212 different coat of arms, but then you need to find an unblurred license plate with an insane amount of detail.

Vegetation/Landscape:

Slovenia is a mountainous and incredibly well forested country with almost 60% of its land mass covered in forests.

