Tunisia is Arabic and French speaking and has a sandy desert vibe. The whole country has a real Middle Eastern feel that more closely resembles Jordan or the United Arab Emirates. Tunisia has a sandy environment with dry grass also making up the landscape. Olive trees are very common in Tunisia and are scattered right throughout the country and palm trees hug the eastern seaboard. There is normally a completely blue sky in Tunisia. Tunisian roads are well-maintained, look smooth and are often covered in sand. The main roads are typically very wide and have a centre strip dividing the road in half. Roundabouts are particularly common in Tunisia and you will often see black and yellow or white and red curbs. License plates in Tunisia are most commonly either all black or consist of a black section on some part of the plate. Tunisia has several types of license plates. All of these variants contain black. Another variant of Tunisian plates depicts some section of the plate as black- this black section can be in the middle or off to one side. Tunisia’s landscape has a real Middle-Eastern vibe. Most of Tunisia is very flat and its major roads are quite wide, often with a centre strip dividing the road. Tunisian roads are well-maintained and look very smooth although they often have a white, sandy tinge. Dry grass in a sandy soil is a common sight alongside the road. Olive trees are very common throughout Tunisia. The northern section of Tunisia contains more vegetation, taller vegetation and greener vegetation than the remainder of Tunisia. Palm trees are common in Tunisia. The architecture is normally white and has Mediterranean elements fused with Middle-Eastern elements. Roundabouts are common at Tunisian intersections. They often have directional signs around them, providing useful information. There are a number of yellow and black painted curbs in Tunisia as well as red and white painted curbs. This type of street light is common throughout Tunisia. Tunisia most commonly uses these metallic wire-style poles as utility poles. The official language of Tunisia is Arabic however French is also widely spoken and appears on signs alongside Arabic. 

Tunisian licence plates are black with white text. 

Military plates feature a small Tunisian flag on the left side of the plate.

Tunisia has Mediterranean, dry and semidesert climates.

In the second step, you will find more about region specific climate and landscape.

These olive tree plantations can often be found along roads. They consist of nicely arranged rows of olive trees on an often raked, weedless soil.

Tunisia usually has white road lines. Outer road lines can be dashed or solid.

A few roads in Sfax have yellow middle lines.

In Tunisia, both French and Arabic are common. The Arabic script can be identified by its lines and dots. You can often see bilingual signs.

The UAE and (more rarely) Jordan use English and Arabic.

Most direction signs have a white background with towns listed in Arabic and Latin script. The font of the Latin script is usually quite distinctive.

Many direction signs include the capital Tunis, but this does not necessarily mean you are anywhere near that city.

Doors, windows, gates and other architectural elements are sometimes painted with this specific traditional shade of blue.

This shade of blue can be found all over the country, but is especially common on the island of Djerba, where buildings tend to be older and more traditional.

Red and white striped curbs are common in Tunisia.

Similar curbs are also common in Israel and Palestine. 
These white concrete markers with a rounded red or yellow top can be found throughout Tunisia. The top can be red, yellow, or green.

Tunisia has a fairly unique stop sign with Arabic and Latin script.

Most Helpful:

Tunisia uses very French road markings. That includes a white divider, often dashed or solid, with white dashed shoulder lines.

There is a rare chance to find a double yellow line. They seem to mainly be in some of the major cities.

Tunisia uses a red and white curb in most of their major cities. Its either freshly painted or faded.

Bollard:

You dont see bollards too often, but they are around some corners and some drainage areas. They look super French.

These KM markers can be found on the sides of the major roads. They often point to large cities, and will have the road number on the sides. They can also be found in Red or Yellow.

Road Lines:

Tunisia uses very French road markings. That includes a white divider, often dashed or solid, with white dashed shoulder lines.

There is a rare chance to find a double yellow line. They seem to mainly be in some of the major cities.

Tunisia uses a red and white curb in most of their major cities. Its either freshly painted or faded.

Road Signs:

You will always find signs in both French and Arabic. Almost every sign points to Tunis.

You can also find these road markers along most of the major roads. the 116 is the KM you are currently at, while A1 is the road you are on.

Electricity poles:

This is the general electricity pole. There is also the single side version of this were only one of the top lights is on the pole.

License plates:

Tunisian plates are black. The red indicates that the vehicle is used by the police. It is not standard on any civilian vehicle.

