The UAE often has wide, high quality roads. The UAE often contains curbs with new yellow and black or white and black striped lines (Jordan sometimes has faded curbs with yellow and black striped lines). The UAE also contains black and white striped poles along the streets (although Jordan very rarely has these too). The UAE and Jordan flags appear frequently throughout each respective country and it’s important to be able to distinguish between the flags. The UAE’s landscape is a sandy desert throughout most of the country. There are vegetation-less mountains in the north-east of the country. The houses and buildings tend to be white and box shaped. The roads normally have yellow, continuous edge lines and white centre lines (yellow centre lines occur but are rarer). Many roads in the UAE have yellow side lines and white centre lines. The roads are generally wide and are of a fairy high quality. The UAE often has curbs with newly painted black and yellow or black and white alternating colours. The UAE landscape consists of a sandy desert and fair-coloured buildings. The UAE looks most similar to Jordan. There is a sandy desert almost everywhere you look in the UAE. The eastern part of the UAE, near the gulf of Oman, has a number of mountains. Sometimes the UAE has some form of a yellow centre line with yellow edge lines however this combination is rarer. Most houses and buildings in the UAE are white or light coloured. They also tend to have flat roofs and be boxy shaped. The UAE is one of only a few countries in the world to have some black and white striped poles. Although Jordan sometimes has these too however they are much rarer in Jordan. Directional information in the UAE is sometimes provided on green signs with white lettering. These motorway numbers are easily visible. Directional information can also be provided on blue signs with white lettering. E roads are motorways that stretch across the entire UAE. The first letter of local roads can indicate where in the UAE you are. ‘A’ roads are around Ajman (located just north of Sharjah), ‘D’ roads= Dubai, ‘F’ roads= Fujairah and ‘S’ roads= Sharjah. There is an  island which is called Sir Baniyas Island. Sir Baniyas Island’s landscape consists of unmarked, narrow roads, small fences, sand and low trees. Arabic and English appear most commonly in unison around the UAE. Arabic can be recognised as it looks a bit like calligraphy and has a horizontal line under many of its letters. 

The UAE typically features a flat desert landscape.

Outer roadlines are yellow, middle lines either white or yellow.

Other Middle Eastern countries, like Jordan and Israel, also use these lines.

The official language in the UAE is Arabic. Its script can be identified by its lines and dots.

Due to high tourism, signs in the UAE often have English writing alongside Arabic. This can be useful to distinguish UAE from other Middle Eastern countries like Jordan.

Houses in residential areas are typically made of light-coloured stone. Reddish stones are often used for sidewalks.

Similarly, almost all curbs are striped. They can be either black-and-white, or black-and-yellow.

Many signposts in the UAE have black-and-white stripes.

Within the Middle East, striped signposts are only found in the UAE.

Divided roads and roundabouts are both very commonly seen in the UAE.

Electricity poles in the UAE are mostly made of dark brown wood. The pole tops consist of three insulators, symmetrically attached to a horizontal metal bar.

Jordanian pole tops may look similar, but they are usually made of grey concrete, and the insulators are more spaced out.

Although the UAE is a wealthy country, it is not uncommon for residential roads to be unpaved.

Road Lines:

The UAE uses yellow shoulders with white central lines, however you can sometimes find yellow centre lines.

It also has black and yellow, or black and white curbs.

Due to the desert landscape often you will find sand spilling onto the road.

Road Signs:

The UAE uses blue, and green signs with English translations.

The UAE uses black and white poles.

Electricity poles:

The UAE uses wooden poles.

Whilst not electrical poles, the UAE has some uniquely styled street lights.

License plates:

UAE use white backed plates with black text, be aware they can either be more square or rectangular.

The UAE uses a green commercial plate.

Vegetation/Landscape:

The UAE is a desert nation however it features some mountains in the east of the country.

Architecture:

The UAE features many white flat topped houses.

The UAE is home to the worlds tallest building, the Burj Khalifa.
